An anonymous juror in the George Zimmerman trial is no longer writing a tell-all book after saying on CNN that an unarmed Trayvon Martin was partly to blame for his fate while his killer's "heart was in the right place." 
The woman, known as Juror B37, said she was unaware while sequestered of the widespread anger surrounding the racially charged case, saying she now "realized that the best direction for me to go is away."
Following B37's interview with Anderson Cooper, the juror said in a statement that she'd changed her mind about writing the book with her husband, a lawyer, after signing a contract to do so earlier Monday. But it emerged Tuesday that the juror's literary agent, Sharlene Martin, was the first to have a change of heart following hours of social media pressure, particularly from one Twitter user with the handle "Cocky McSwagsalot" who started the ball rolling while watching the interview.
"Hey @sharlenemartin, please drop Juror B37," one of the Tweets read. "Do not let a person who helped a murderer get away profit from this tragedy."
The social media campaign soon snowballed and Martin was at the heart of a Twitter firestorm. By 1 a.m., she reportedly messaged Cocky that she'd reconsidered representing the juror.
Juror B37, indeed, has only served to further anger Americans dismayed by the not-guilty verdict handed down to Zimmerman over the weekend. The case has reopened wounds in a country where racial tensions still simmer in the aftermath of a sorry history of slavery and segregation.
"I think both were responsible for the situation they had gotten themselves into," the juror told Cooper of the events of Feb. 26, 2012, which left Martin gunned down just blocks from his father's home in a gated community in Sanford, Fla.
"I think they both could have walked away."
Zimmerman was charged with seconddegree murder in the shooting, but the jury was also allowed to consider manslaughter.
Protests against the verdict are showing no signs of abating this week as civil rights leaders announced Tuesday that they're organizing vigils and rallies in 100 American cities this weekend to pressure the Department of Justice to lay federal charges against Zimmerman.
"People all across the country will gather to show that we are not having a two-or three-day anger fit," Rev. Al Sharpton said outside department headquarters in D.C.
