AL SHARPTON has a new, decades-younger, attractive main squeeze.
The civil rights activist and MSNBC star, 58, is dating 35-year-old Aisha McShaw, a Westchester "personal stylist" who has been seen on Sharpton's arm at several recent black-tie affairs, including the White House Correspondents Dinner in April and President Obama's holiday party in December. 
When she arrived in a form-fitting black and white dress with a sharp-suited Sharpton at the New York County Democratic Committee Award Ceremony on Monday night, the Daily News asked her to define her relationship with the civil rights powerhouse.
"I'm his girlfriend," McShaw said before Sharpton intervened to shepherd her away from a reporter.
She told The News that she works as a "personal stylist," but Sharpton quickly shuffled her off without letting her elaborate on her profession.
He refused to answer a question about how long the two had been an item.
Sharpton's relationship with McShaw appears to be the most serious one he's had since separating from his wife Kathy in 2004 after 24 years of marriage.
At the time, Sharpton's publicist said the two - who met when Kathy was working as a backup singer for James Brown - had simply grown apart.
Sharpton has been spending a lot of time with McShaw. The two have been photographed at elegant bashes all over the country for months.
The young stylist, who is registered to vote as independent in Mamaroneck, says on her LinkedIn page that she works in financial services as a personal banker at Wells Fargo.
Though Sharpton was tight-lipped about his personal life Monday, the normally press-loving rabble-rouser was happy to pontificate with reporters on the city's political races.
Eliot Spitzer and Scott Stringer - Democratic rivals in the high-profile race for city controller - had both recently reached out to him, he said.
"I have not made an endorsement there. . . . Both of them have called me and I told both of them that I was in the middle of the Trayvon Martin thing," he said.
