"The view of a criminal case by those who follow it every day from a jury box is often quite different from the one absorbed by those watching the TV accounts." We wrote that in this space two years ago, after Casey Anthony's acquittal. The same can be said about last weekend's outcome of another nationally covered Florida murder trial - the acquittal of community watch volunteer George Zimmerman on charges of manslaughter and second-degree murder in the shooting death of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin.
Unlike the Anthony case, the Zimmerman case involves race - an additional combustible element that makes it even harder for Americans to calm down and avoid snap judgments. But Americans will have to do just that - calm down, think and discuss their concerns rationally - if they want Martin's death to have meaning.
This tragedy started with Zimmerman's snap judgment that an African-American teenager - who was actually living in the same gated community as Zimmerman and coming back from an evening snack run - was a "punk" who didn't belong there and was likely up to no good.
Zimmerman showed recklessness and atrocious judgment by getting out of his car after he had called the police, and had been clearly told by a dispatcher that he didn't need to follow Martin. But it was still a huge challenge for prosecutors to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Zimmerman, while in a brawl with Martin, had no reason to fear for his life and reach for his gun. The acquittal, which came after the jury deliberated 16 hours, didn't surprise legal experts who followed the case - even if many who dipped in and out of the blanket coverage on cable news found the verdict infuriating.
Like truth, justice is elusive. It may not have been done in this case - as in many others we can think of. But the legal process, which is justifiably tilted toward protecting the rights of defendants, was followed. President Barack Obama put it about as well as anyone could: "We are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken."
The president then referred to TrayvonMartin's parents, whose conduct throughout was exemplary: "I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son. And as we do, we should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to widen the circle of compassion and understanding in our communities." Every reputable community leader we know of, here and elsewhere, said something similar.
It can be emotionally satisfying to yell, and to preach to people in your particular group who already agree with you. But the only long-term result is that you get hoarse, and those in the larger community tune you out. Nothing of consequence is accomplished without honest discussion that crosses racial and social lines. Having such a discussion would be a good monument for TrayvonMartin.
