MIAMI - Civil rights leaders said Tuesday they are planning vigils and rallies in 100 U.S. cities this weekend to press the federal government to bring charges against a former neighbourhood watch volunteer acquitted in the killing of an unarmed black teenager. 
George Zimmerman had been charged with second-degree murder in the fatal shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin last year, but a jury of six women found him not guilty of that charge as well as the lesser charge of manslaughter.
"People all across the country will gather to show that we are not having a two- or three-day anger fit. This is a social movement for justice," Rev. Al Sharpton said as he announced the plan outside the Justice Department in Washington, D.C.
The rallies and vigils will occur in front of federal court buildings at noon Saturday in cities including Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia and New York.
Martin was visiting his father and returning to the home of his father's fiance after a trip to the store when Zimmerman identified him as a potential criminal. The neighbourhood watchman fatally shot Martin during a physical confrontation in the gated community in February 2012.
Sharpton says vigils will be followed by a conference next week in Miami to develop a plan to address Florida's "stand-your-ground" law. The law gives people wide latitude to use deadly force if they fear death or bodily harm.
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said such laws, which exist in many states, need to be reassessed.
"Separate and apart from the case that has drawn the nation's attention, it's time to question laws that senselessly expand the concept of self-defence and sow dangerous conflict in our neighbourhoods," Holder said during a speech before a convention of the NAACP civil rights group.
Meanwhile, protests over Zimmerman's acquittal had broken out as far away as California.
In Los Angeles, people ran through streets on Monday night, breaking windows, attacking people on sidewalks and raiding a Walmart store, while others blocked a major freeway in the San Francisco Bay area in the third night of demonstrations.
Fourteen people were arrested after multiple acts of vandalism and several assaults in Los Angeles.
Los Angeles police vowed on Tuesday to crack down with quick action and arrests if further disturbances arise. Demonstrators must remain on sidewalks on Tuesday night and will be arrested if they commit any crimes or block traffic, police said.
"For those of you who were here last night and came for the wrong reasons, if you come here again tonight, you will go to jail," police Chief Charlie Beck said at a news conference.
