Mob Justice: Attorney General Eric Holder confirms he'll do the bidding of racial arsonists and look into bringing criminal civil-rights charges against George Zimmerman. Good luck with that. 
The state of Florida just spent more than $1 million prosecuting Zimmerman for murder in the Trayvon Martin shooting and couldn't find a shred of evidence he was animated by racial hatred. A jury summarily dismissed the trumped-up charges.
What's more, charging Zimmerman under federal hate-crimes law would defy the findings of the FBI's own investigation conducted last year. All told, agents interviewed no fewer than 45 Zimmerman co-workers, neighbors and other acquaintances -- including even his ex-fiance -- and found no evidence of racial bias.
None said Zimmerman, a neighborhood crime watch captain, had expressed racial animus at any time prior to the Feb. 26, 2012, self-defense shooting of Martin, who while under the influence of illegal drugs had jumped Zimmerman, breaking his nose and bashing his head repeatedly on the pavement. The 17-year-old Martin was visiting Zimmerman's gated community in Sanford, Fla., while on school suspension for alleged burglary.
Lead Sanford Police Detective Chris Serino told the FBI that race wasn't behind the shooting.
"Serino believed that Zimmerman's actions were not based on Martin's skin color (but) rather on his attire, the total circumstances of the encounter and the previous burglary suspects in the community," the FBI wrote in its report. "Serino described Zimmerman as overzealous and as having a "little hero complex,' but not as a racist."
Even an African-American officer -- Sanford Police Sgt. Arthur Barns -- denied Zimmerman targeted Martin because he was black. He "felt the shooting was not racially motivated," the FBI report stated.
The report also noted Zimmerman's mixed-race family and volunteer work helping underprivileged African-American children. Not only does he have black relatives, he has also donated his time tutoring black kids.
In effect, the FBI has already cleared Zimmerman of race crime. If anybody's civil rights were violated, it was Zimmerman's -- with help from Holder.
After Holder and his pal Al Sharpton pressured state prosecutors to rush out an arrest warrant, Zimmerman was denied a grand jury review of evidence and any formal indictment -- in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
And that arrest affidavit was nakedly corrupt. Special prosecutor Angela Corey withheld material exculpatory facts, such as photos of head and facial wounds suffered by Zimmerman, which backed his claims of self-defense.
Corey also withheld exculpatory evidence from Zimmerman's defense team. After a whistleblower from her office -- Ben Kruidbos -- testified prosecutors failed to turn over damning photos and text messages retrieved from Martin's cellphone, Corey fired him.
During her "fair and unbiased" investigation, Corey prayed with Martin's parents, even holding their hands during one meeting. She not only overcharged Zimmerman but also covered up evidence that would have exonerated him. In short, she denied him due process.
So if the Justice Department wants to launch an investigation into the Zimmerman case, it ought to focus on Corey and her corrupt office.
