THE DAILY NEWS is one of the "mad scientists," described by George Zimmerman's defense attorney, who went to work on Zimmerman without knowing all the facts. Elmer Smith does a decent job of at least allowing the other side to be mentioned in his column. But if you are going to take the prosecution's case and say that it portrayed Zimmerman as a "hate-filled racist," then that needs to be backed up. Of course, you then claim it was "over the top," but the prosecutors never alluded to Zimmerman being a racist. When, Mr. Smith, did either prosecutor portray George Zimmerman as racist? 
The answer is, they did not. The answer is, the prosecutors did a fantastic job of putting on a trial with little facts to support their accusations. I understand the racial-divide components here, but if white people were all so racist, wouldn't we be pulling for Zimmerman, a Hispanic, to be arrested? One dead black kid and a Hispanic in jail for 20 years sounds like a racist's birthday wish.  
But no, in almost every interview of any protesters anywhere in the country, you hear Zimmerman described as white. President Obama is white then, too. 
Kevin Metz 
Ridley Park, Pa. 
It's sad that a young man is dead. But to hear the Rev. Jesse Jackson say that this wasn't a jury of his peers because it was all women and not a black man on it . . . didn't the state have a say in who sits on the jury? I think so. 
It's sad to hear CNN speak about how happy people are that there is no violence - there isn't supposed to be any! That would be acting like animals. Just because it didn't go their way, OK, let's destroy property. Duh! 
White people didn't do that when O.J. got off. Everybody knows he did it! I would like to see Jackson and the Rev. Al Sharpton go to high-crime areas and stay there for a week, not just one day for a photo shoot. Then maybe they can make a difference in those areas where there is a lot of black-on-black crime. Why isn't there a national march on that? 
That is a disgrace. There are killings everyday in the 'hood. No one death is more important than another. 
Just ask any mother, who has lost a child. 
Bobby LaVelle 
Philadelphia 
I find it ironic that Judge Debra Nelson, in her judicial wisdom, deemed it plausible to consider, in charging the jury in the George Zimmerman case, with the charge of manslaughter when at the trial's inception the prosecution sought the crime to be second-degree murder. I've followed the trial from a print standpoint and also on nightly news broadcasts, and I believe that the prosecution's case has been weak and the defense case has been overwhelmingly presented in a manner that portrays George Zimmerman as a concerned "neighborhood watchman" and not the vigilante that the prosecution has attempted to portray. 
Additionally, as a retired Philadelphia police officer, it appears to me that the media has been trying to foster the notion that the entire trial was a racial issue. The fear of racial violence, should a not-guilty verdict have been handed down, should not have clouded the jury's decision to decide guilt or innocence on the evidence presented by the prosecution or defense. 
James V. Ward 
Philadelphia 
It is with great sadness that a man killed another man and got away with it. 
Plain and simple, George Zimmerman shot and killed Trayvon Martin. He got out of his car and got into a fistfight with the young man. He probably was losing the fight and shot the young man. Rightfully so, he should have been locked up, but those six jurors just did not want to stay there any longer and examine the facts. They pretended that they were examining, but I assume their minds were already made up. 
The Justice Department needs to redo that case and this time pick jurors who are sincere. I think a law-enforcement officer should have been one of the jurors, and if they did not know the law or were not sure, he could have answered any of their questions. 
The last thing we need is to have people walking around carrying guns because they are afraid the same thing might happen to them or for some stupid reason. We do not need people thinking that they can get away with shooting another person and use Zimmerman's trial as an example. We need to let our law-enforcement officers do their job. They are trained professionals who are very good. 
Emotions are running very high, and rightfully so, but by the same token we need lots of patience, and not react too fast to anger - to pause for 10-20 seconds, take deep breaths and, most of all, pray. 
Barbara Kelley 
Philadelphia    
