Agencies
SANFORD, United States
President Barack Obama has appealed to Americans for restraint amid anger from civil rights activists and public protests against the acquittal of a man who gunned down an unarmed black teenager.
A Florida jury late on Saturday found neighbourhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman not guilty of murdering TrayvonMartin, after a long and racially-charged trial that transfixed much of the United States for weeks.
"Obviously, we are ecstatic. George Zimmerman was never guilty of anything except protecting himself in self-defence," said his lead attorney Mark O'Mara after the verdict. 
Zimmerman, 29, was charged with second degree murder, having pursued Martin, 17, through a gated community in the town of Sanford, eventually shooting him during an altercation on the rainy night of February 26, 2012.
The trial aroused strong passions and divided those who believed that Zimmerman, whose father is white and whose mother is Peruvian, had racially-profiled Martin, and those who believed he acted in self-defence.
Spontaneous protests broke out in San Francisco, Philadelphia, Chicago, Washington and Atlanta overnight, following the verdict, though they were mostly peaceful.
On Sunday, a large demonstration in New York attracted several thousand people, with placards that read, "Jail racist killers, not black youth", and "We are all Trayvon. The whole damn system is guilty."
One of the marchers in lower Manhattan wore a T-shirt proclaiming: "I'm black. Please don't shoot?"
Beyonce called at a concert for a moment of silence for Martin. Rapper Young Jeezy released a song in Martin's memory.
Rand Powdrill, 41, said he came to the San Francisco march with about 400 others to "protest the execution of an innocent black teenager. If our voices can't be heard, then this is just going to keep going on".
However, Obama, the first black US president, urged people to accept the trial verdict.
"We are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken," Obama said in a statement. "I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son."
Earlier in Oakland, California, protesters had smashed windows and spray painted cars after the verdict was announced live on television.
In a statement yesterday, the Justice Department said the criminal section of its civil rights division, the FBI and the local US Attorney's office are continuing to evaluate the evidence.
The department has a long history of using federal civil rights law in an effort to convict defendants who have previously been acquitted in related state cases.
But experience has shown it's almost never easy getting convictions in such high-profile prosecutions.
Alan Vinegrad, a former US attorney, said federal prosecutors "would have to show not only that the attack was unjustified, but that Mr Zimmerman attacked Mr Martin because of his race and because he was using a public facility, the street".
The court did not release the racial and ethnic makeup of the six-person jury, but the panel appeared to reporters to be made up of five white women and a sixth who may be Hispanic.
The jurors did not talk to reporters after the verdict.
On Sunday, the president tied the killing of the teenager to the problems surrounding gun use in the United States, an issue in which he tried but failed to push through new control measures in the US Congress earlier this year.
"We should ask ourselves, as individuals and as a society, how #124we can prevent future tragedies #124like this. As citizens, that's a #124job for all of us. That's the way to honour TrayvonMartin," Obama said.
Florida police initially declined to press charges against Zimmerman, sparking mass protests. He was eventually arrested in April 2012 and charged with second-degree murder.
The killing has also resonated with those who call for stricter gun laws, including New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who issued a statement against what he called "shoot-first laws".
"Sadly, all the facts in this tragic case will probably never be known. But one fact has long been crystal clear: 'shoot first' laws like those in Florida can inspire dangerous vigilantism and protect those who act recklessly with guns," he said.
Memories of the deadly April 1992 riots in Los Angeles, which broke out after a similarly racially-tinged case, still linger among US law enforcement officials.
Fearing violence after the Zimmerman verdict, police were out in force in Sanford, and the crowd of several hundred outside the courthouse was loud at times, but not violent.
A racial divide, however, was evident in Sanford pastor Valerie Houston's sermon on Sunday.
"Dr [Martin Luther] King [Jr] stated, the daily life of the Negro is still in the basement of the Great Society," she said. "And today I state, the daily life of my people is still enslaved to a white supremacist society."
Martin's parents, father and mother had before the trial asked the public to respect the outcome and afterward gave thanks for the outpouring of support they received over the past year.
