WOLFVILLE, N.S.
Painter Alex Colville focused on ordinary
Celebrated painter Alex Colville, whose meticulously crafted scenes of everyday life established him as one of Canada's most well-known modern artists, has died at the age of 92. His son, Graham, said his father passed away Tuesday at his home in Wolfville, N.S. A painter, engraver, sketch artist and muralist, Colville earned a reputation for crafting tranquil compositions that focused on routine moments of family life and featured landscapes, animals and the sea. His work was accessible, memorable and reached millions of Canadians through a myriad of avenues including art galleries, magazines, book covers, postcards, posters, television, coins and even via the cover of a Bruce Cockburn album.
JACKSON, Miss. 
Blues singer 'T-Model' Ford dies at home
James Lewis Carter "T-Model" Ford, a hard-living Mississippi blues singer who taught himself to play guitar at 58, has died at his home in Greenville on Tuesday. Ford was born in 1924 and had already had his birthday this year, which would've made him 89. Blues expert Roger Stolle says Ford didn't remember what year he was born and claimed to be 93.
LONDON
All the world's a stage - for real
Shakespeare's Globe Theatre is about to take the Bard's words literally - "All the world's a stage." The London theatre announced Tuesday that it plans to tour a production of Hamlet to every country in the world, some 205 nations and territories in all. The small-scale production, performed by a cast of eight, will tour the world between April 2014 and April 23, 2016 - the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare's death. "By train, coach, plane and boat, we aim to take this wonderful, iconic, multifarious play to as many fresh ears as we possibly can," said artistic director Dominic Dromgoole.
NEW YORK
Nas gets fellowship in his name at Harvard
Nas has rapped his way to Harvard University. The Ivy League school announced Tuesday that the 39-year-old rapper is being honoured with the Nasir Jones Hip-Hop Fellowship at its W.E.B. Du Bois Institute. It's a joint venture with Harvard's Hip-Hop Archive. The fellowship will assist students who excel in the arts "in connection with hip-hop." The Hip-Hop Archive was established at Harvard in 2002. It supports growing research in hip-hop.
NEW YORK
Dylan's Self Portrait gets Bootleg release
Bob Dylan's most controversial and critically panned album gets a fresh perspective with the Aug. 27 release of The Bootleg Series, Vol. 10 - Another Self Portrait (1969-1971). The new Columbia Records release contains 35 rarities and previously unreleased recordings. The music is drawn from mainly from 1970 recording sessions that resulted in the albums, Self Portrait and New Morning. Self-Portrait was Dylan's 10th studio album and the first to be disparaged by music critics.
LOS ANGELES
Inferno headed to theatres in 2015
Sony Pictures is skipping over The Lost Symbol and heading into an Inferno, announcing Tuesday that the 2013 Dan Brown novel will be its next Robert Langdon movie. The studio has hired writer David Koepp, who wrote 2009's Angels & Demons based on Brown's novel of the same name, and aims to release the movie in December 2015. Tom Hanks is expected to return in the Langdon role; no director has been announced.
NEW YORK
Stevie Wonder won't perform in Florida
Stevie Wonder won't perform in Florida. In a video posted on YouTube, the 63-year-old singer said at a concert in Quebec City on Sunday "that until the stand your ground law is abolished in Florida, I will never perform there again." George Zimmerman shot 17-year-old Trayvon Martin during a February 2012 confrontation in Sanford, Fla. Zimmerman said he fired his gun in self-defence under the law. A six-member jury acquitted Zimmerman of second-degree murder and manslaughter charges on Saturday.
TORONTO
Flying sharks flop with 300,000 viewers
It seems as though the hype storm around Sharknado largely subsided by the time the movie hit Canadian television screens Friday night. It attracted a modest 300,000 viewers in its Canadian premiere on the cable channel Space. It finished just ahead of a Murder, She Wrote (205,000) rerun on Vision TV and Johnny Test on Teletoon (177,000). In Sharknado, a Syfy original movie starring Beverly Hills 90210 alumnus Ian Ziering and Tara Reid, Los Angeles is being attacked by thousands of flying sharks during a tornado.
LOS ANGELES
Whiff of new single in Bieber perfume ad
Justin Bieber has been teasing his new song, Heartbreaker, for more than a month. Now fans can hear a snippet of the song in a new commercial for his fragrance The Key. The ad, which mainly shows a woman in a hotel room bed, and gives a quick glimpse of the singer in the hotel's hallway. Since June, Bieber has dropped hints about the song's arrival. Since June, Bieber has dropped hints about the song's arrival. Heartbreaker is expected to be the first single from his fourth studio album.
