AFTER THE not-guilty verdict in the George Zimmerman murder trial, I waited in earnest for the Monday morning Daily News to see how the paper's intrepid writers would trash the verdict and make excuses in favor of Trayvon Martin and bash George Zimmerman. I was not disappointed. 
First, I and a majority of Americans who followed the case are not horrified that the verdict was not guilty. I thought this was a media-inspired lynching from the beginning. This decedent is wholly responsible for his own death. All evidence and witness accounts prove that Martin attacked Zimmerman.  
I also disagree that this incident will prevent "stand your ground" laws from being enacted. If anything, this incident proves their necessity. A decent citizen should always be allowed to defend himself; this case should bolster legislatures around the country to allow their citizens the necessary legal background to do so. 
It matters not that Zimmerman followed Martin. He was a member of a neighborhood watch - that's what they do, follow suspicious persons and keep neighborhoods safe, and by all accounts Martin looked suspicious. It doesn't matter that Zimmerman got out of his vehicle to follow Martin - not illegal. Elmer Smith tried to interject the tidbit that Martin had the right to stand his ground, but for what? Martin didn't have to stand his ground to anything because he wasn't a victim of any crime, he was the aggressor. 
Put aside the media fog about that night in Florida and things are much simpler than what's been reported in the media: It was an act of self-defense to stop a threat. And it's appalling how the legacy media fed the masses such nonsense, such as photos of Martin as a 12-year-old and the edited 9-1-1 calls, and continue to do so, with Ronnie Polaneczky's and Elmer Smith's totally biased articles. 
For the last five years, I watched a once great country take a downward spiral. This verdict has given me hope that maybe, just maybe, the rule of law will return to being in fashion, away from the spin and silly nonsense we're fed by the Daily News and the rest of the legacy media. I also hope that George Zimmerman is victorious with his lawsuit against NBC for their edited 9-1-1 tapes that defamed his character, and that one day the media stop their pursuit of ratings and once again report the facts. 
Tom Sexton 
Philadelphia 
I'm just beginning to realize that the U.S. is ruled by the socialistic media and not the people or politicians. Years ago, the media was neutral and just told the people what was going on in the country and did not cater to either the left or right. Sorry to say, those days are over and most of our media have turned to the left and not to the center. All they are interested in is the revenue they can get from advertisements and not the truth. 
They realize that they are a dying breed of honest reporting. I'm beginning to realize that they are bearers of vermin sent to not-too-bright Americans. Just one example is the Zimmerman case. Why all of a sudden did the media decide to take on the Zimmerman case when every year there are a dozen cases like that? Why the sudden interest? They just want to get the attention that would bring revenue into their dying coffers and cause race problems. 
Also, why did the media have a photo of that so-called child Martin when he was 12 years old? Martin, according to past records, was always in trouble. Smoking weed was only one problem of many he had. 
What made me angrier was the fact of a lot of browns and Caucasians who must be on some type of high medicine protesting in the streets for this so-called child. 
Another thing is that the news media might be working behind the scenes for the Obama administration. I think the intelligent Americans know that they want Benghazi, IRS and the spying of an innocent Fox reporter off the headlines. I hate to say this, but if the media denies what I'm saying they are not only scum of the earth but also the biggest liars on earth. 
John Stuhr 
Philadelphia 
Good to see Elmer Smith back writing again. His race-baiting prose regarding the Zimmerman acquittal is a welcome relief to the liberal media's fair and balanced reporting on this current event. 
Welcome back, Elmer, it has been a while. I thought you died. 
Jim Taylor 
Bensalem 
The People of Florida vs. George Zimmerman is a direct reflection of how social media has influenced our society tremendously. 
I would've never imagined that such a trial could yield a public response from both President Obama and Mayor Nutter. 
Way before any verdict was read, its impact resonated throughout our entire country. 
Wayne E. Williams 
Camden 
