PITTSFIELD -- As a mother with a 17-year-old teenage son, Lisa Clayton of Pittsfield has been worried for the safety of her teen and other young people since the shooting death of Trayvon Martin.
Martin, 17, who was unarmed, was gunned down by neighborhood watchman George Zimmerman, then 28, last February in a gated community in Sanford, Fla. Martin was returning there after a trip to a nearby convenience store when Zimmerman deemed the teen's activity suspicious.
Zimmerman was acquitted of murder charges by a jury on Saturday, a decision that has since caused a rift across the nation and generated a wave of protests, rallies and vigils, some peaceful, some belligerent.
Nearly 100 residents rallied for the slain teen on Park Square last March, many crying injustice prior to Zimmerman's arrest.
Clayton said she and her family and friends only want peace.
"I've been watching [this case] very closely. We have a 17-year-old. The fact that [Martin] was another 17-year-old just walking home from a 7-11 minding his own business and was shot is just wrong," said Clayton. "A lot of kids these days are singled out as being a punk or in a gang for how they dress, when the fact is a lot of kids aren't looking for trouble."
She was upset by Saturday's verdict.
"People need to stand up for safety in cities, for parents, for this young boy who got his life taken from him so young," said Clayton.
The vigil for Martin, said the Pittsfield mother, is meant to be brief, quiet and peaceful.
"We don't want any negativity, no yelling or angry signs," she said. "The outcome, I hope, will be to stop all this negativity and violence, especially that which is aimed toward young adults."
People may begin gathering at 7 p.m. on Park Square in downtown Pittsfield. At 7:17, the approximate time of Martin's shooting, people are asked to light a candle and hold a moment of silence. Clayton said people should bring their own candle, and may wear a gray hooded sweatshirt. That kind of sweatshirt, worn by Martin at the time of his death, has become a symbol of protest and solidarity among Martin sympathizers.
"At the end of this silent protest, people can just disperse on their own. We just want to show the [Martin] family that their son's light will shine on," Clayton said.
To reach Jenn Smith:jsmith@berkshireeagle.com ,or (413) 496-6239.On Twitter: @JennSmith_Ink
