Retailers Weak Ex Autos, Gas
1 June sales rose 0.4%, half the predicted monthly gain, as consumers dined out less and bought fewer building supplies. Auto sales grew 1.8%. Higher fuel prices sent gas station receipts up 0.7%. But ex autos, gas and building materials, sales edged up 0.1%, a 5-month low. Online and other nonstore sales surged 2.1%. Furniture rose 2.4%. More on this page
Stocks Notch Modest Gains 
2 The Nasdaq rose for the 13 th time in 14 sessions, tacking on 0.2%. The S&P 500 and Dow added 0.1%. Volume dropped across the board. Solar stocks led Mon.'s gains. Retail sales grew less than expected, but some market watchers said that makes a quick start to Federal Reserve tapering of quantitative easing unlikely. The 10-year Treasury yield fell 4 basis points to 2.54%. More on B2
Zimmerman Debate Goes On
3 Att'y General Eric Holder shares the "concern" over the George Zimmerman's weekend acquittal, saying the death of Trayvon Martin was "tragic" and "unnecessary." The Justice Dept. could file civil rights charges, but the FBI previously found no evidence of racial bias by Zimmerman. Protests continued in many U.S. cities, with calls for more.
Reid About To Go "Nuclear'?
4 Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said Republicans must allow up-or-down votes on at least 7 presidential appointees they've been blocking or he will push changes in Senate filibuster rules for such nominees. The move, as soon as this week, would not apply to legislation or judicial nominees, but could open the door to wider moves later. Talks were ongoing Mon. night regarding a possible compromise.
Citi Tops On Stock Trading
5 The No. 3 U.S. bank by assets' Q2 EPS jumped 25% to $1.25, beating views by 8 cents. Revenue rose 8% to $20 bil, ex some items. Citigroup credit losses fell 26% as higher housing prices boosted the value of home mortgage assets. Stock trading revenue jumped 68% after the Fed hinted at tapering quantitative easing. Shares rose 2%.
U.S. Envoy In Divided Egypt
6 Deputy Sec'y of State William Burns became the 1 st senior U.S. official to visit since the army ousted Islamist Pres. Mohammed Morsi, saying he was not there to "lecture anyone." But America is viewed with suspicion by Morsi opponents and supporters -- the former for backing Morsi's gov't and the latter for later accepting his removal. Huge pro-Morsi crowds demonstrated in Cairo.
Syrian Civil War Tally Climbs
7 Pres. Bashar Assad's troops pounded the northern city of Idlib, killing at least 29, activists said. And a car bomb explosion at a Syria police station killed 13. Infighting has swelled between mainstream rebels and increasingly numerous and radical Islamic groups, AP said, some linked to al-Qaida, who often target gov't buildings. The UN estimates 93,000 have died in the war since '11.
China Growth Slows Further
8 GDP expanded 7.5% in Q2 vs. a year earlier, decelerating for a 2 nd straight quarter, but it eased fears of even slower growth amid weakening exports and tighter lending. June industrial output cooled more than expected, while retail sales topped views. Despite Beijing's efforts to shift the economy toward consumer spending, investment's share of growth has expanded so far in '13.
Boeing Rebounds On Probe
9 The aerospace giant's shares rose 4% on preliminary reports suggesting that batteries weren't to blame for Fri.'s fire on a parked Ethiopian Airlines' 787 at Heathrow Airport. Many analysts believe the incident was a one-time issue. An official U.K. report is expected at the end of the week. But airlines aren't grounding their 787 fleets.
N.Y.-Area Factories Pick Up
10 The N.Y. Fed's Empire manufacturing index unexpectedly rose in July, signaling faster growth. New orders and output gauges turned higher, while labor subindexes improved. The outlook measure rose for the first time in months. U.S. industrial reports generally show growth vs. a slumping Europe and stagnating China. See Vital Signs on A2
