GEORGE ZIMMERMAN'S parents are praying for TrayvonMartin.
Gladys and Robert Zimmerman told ABC News' Barbara Walters that they are struggling to cope with their new life in the aftermath of their son's acquittal in the fatal shooting of the unarmed 17-year-old. 
"We are deeply sorry for this tragedy. We pray for TrayvonMartin," Gladys said, speaking publicly Monday for the first time since the verdict.
Robert Zimmerman said that the family is terrified of the hostility directed at them.
"We've had an enormous amount of death threats," Robert said.
"There's nothing I can tell (the people making the threats)," Gladys added. "But I can pray for them."
They strongly defended their son, who has been derided as a trigger-happy, wanna-be cop eager to challenge a black teen he assumed was up to no good.
"He's not a racist. He wasn't taught to be a racist," Robert said of his son.
Gladys even sought to explain her son's lack of emotion in the courtroom.
"What you see is a composed person. That's what you will see in all my kids," she said.
She revealed to Walters she hasn't spoken much with George, 29, since the verdict, because he fears someone would eavesdrop on their phone conversations.
Meanwhile, new details emerged of the early days of the investigation into the deadly February 2012 shooting.
A Sanford, Fla., investigator thought George Zimmerman wasn't a racist, but instead a bit "overzealous" and emboldened by a "little hero complex," according to an FBI report posted on The Smoking Gun website Monday.
During an interview with FBI special agents, Sanford cop Chris Serino said he'd found no evidence that the incident between the volunteer neighborhood watchman and Trayvon was motivated by race.
"Zimmerman's actions were not based on Martin's skin color, (but) rather based on his attire, the total circumstances of the encounter and the previous burglary suspects in the community," the agents wrote in a report dated March 5, 2012 - about a week after the deadly confrontation.
Zimmerman may have mistook Trayvon for a member of the Goons, a local street gang whose members often wore black hoodies, the report indicated.
The findings highlighted the challenges the Justice Department faces as it considers bringing civil rights charges against Zimmerman.
In other developments:
nl Attorney General Eric Holder called Trayvon's killing "a tragic, unnecessary" shooting and pledged his prosecutors would follow "the facts and the law."
nl White House spokesman Jay Carney said President Obama would not directly involve himself in the Justice Department investigation.
nl Six members of New York City's congressional delegation applauded the Justice Department for its probe.
nnl The NYPD made 15 arrests and issued one summons Sunday during protests over the verdict, mostly for disorderly conduct. nnl A prominent literary agent revealed she is shopping a book proposal by one of the still-unnamed jurors who acquitted Zimmerman.
