US civil rights groups furious at a state jury's acquittal of George Zimmerman in the shooting death of black teen TrayvonMartin are looking to another racially charged case -- the Rodney King beating -- to take the the matter to federal courts . . . but legal experts warn it will be an uphill battle.
The Justice Department has a host of criminal civil-rights laws at its disposal, and has made such cases in the past. 
Among them was the federal prosecution of a group of Los Angeles police officers after they were acquitted in state court of the brutal beating of Rodney King in 1991, which sparked riots in that city.
Two of the four officers were eventually convicted by a federal jury of violating King's civil rights under ``colour of law'' -- that is, beating him up in their capacity as police.
While the Los Angeles suburb of Oakland, which had the worst of the 1991 rioting after the initial King verdict, erupted into sporadic violence yesterday, the Zimmerman finding failed to spill over in largely peaceful protests in Miami, New York and Arizona.
However, there were still enough similarities in the two cases for civil rights leader Reverend Al Sharpton to link Mr Martin's death to the King beating while NAACP president Benjamin Jealous said federal criminal charges must be filed because evidence suggests race was a factor.
However, legal experts pointed out that the colour of law rule applies only to those in law enforcement. A Neighbourhood Watch volunteer in Sanford, Florida, Mr Zimmerman was found by a jury to have justifiably shot 17-year-old Mr Martin in self-defence, is a civilian -- ironically, one who wanted to be a police officer.
In his case, it's possible the Justice Department might consider using a different type of civil-rights law: the federal hate-crime statute. As in the King case, the double-jeopardy clause of the US Constitution does not prohibit such a federal prosecution after Mr Zimmerman's state acquittal.
But legal experts said it would be a formidable challenge for Attorney-General Eric H Holder Jr to make a hate-crime case against Zimmerman under US civil rights laws, because Florida jurors found Mr Zimmerman not guilty of both second-degree murder and manslaughter.
What is certain is that enormous pressure on Mr Holder, the first African-American Attorney-General, will grow in coming days. President Barack Obama issued a statement backing the Zimmerman not-guilty verdict, saying the shooting of Mr Martin was a tragedy but a ``jury has spoken''.
``And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher. ``But we are a nation of laws and a jury has spoken.
``I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son.
``And as we do, we should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to widen the circle of compassion and understanding in our own communities.''
Trayvon's parents Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin spoke with their attorney about what happens next -- possibilities also include a wrongful-death case against Mr Zimmerman in civil court.
.
RACE IN US CASES
George Zimmerman: George Zimmerman was only charged over the death of Travyon Martin six weeks after the February, 2012, shooting, when civil rights leaders demanded action.
Rodney King: Four LAPD officers were charged in 1992 following the release of video of King being beaten. They were acquitted, a decision which triggered riots across Los Angeles.
