An anonymous juror in the George Zimmerman trial has backtracked on plans for a tell-all book after telling CNN that an unarmed Trayvon Martin was partly to blame for his fate while his killer's "heart was in the right place." 
The woman, known as Juror B37, said she was unaware while sequestered of the widespread anger surrounding the racially charged case, saying later she now "realized that the best direction for me to go is away."
The juror said she changed her mind about writing a book with her husband, a lawyer, after signing a contract to do so earlier Monday. But B37's interview with Anderson Cooper has only served to further anger Americans outraged by the not-guilty verdict handed down to Zimmerman over the weekend. The case has reopened wounds in a country where racial tensions still linger.
"I think both were responsible for the situation they had gotten themselves into," the juror told Cooper of the incident, which left Martin gunned down just blocks from his father's home in a gated community in Sanford, Fla. "I think they both could have walked away."Zimmerman was charged with second-degree murder in the shooting, but the jury was also allowed to consider manslaughter.
Protests against the verdict are showing no signs of abating this week as civil rights leaders announced Tuesday that they're organizing vigils and rallies in 100 cities this weekend to pressure the Department of Justice to lay federal charges against Zimmerman.
The Justice Department says it's investigating the shooting to determine whether criminal civil rights charges can now be laid against Zimmerman.
Martin, a 17-year-old black teen, was walking to his father's house from a convenience store when he caught the eye of Zimmerman, an armed neighbourhood watch guard who began following him. Martin died after an altercation between the two.
African-Americans, in particular, have pointed to Martin's slaying as painful proof that young black men are viewed with suspicion and distrust by authorities.
Martin's mother, Sybrina Fulton, said that watching so many Americans come together to peacefully protest the verdict have reminded her that there's still work to be done.
Fulton and her ex-husband, Tracy Martin, are pushing for restrictions to so-called Stand Your Ground laws in Florida and other states. Under the law, an aggressor can claim self-defence in the middle of an altercation - and use deadly force.
