Durham pastor John Leak was outspoken Sunday in his reaction to the not-guilty verdict in the trial of George Zimmerman for the death of Trayvon Martin in Sanford, Fla. 
"It's really a shame that for centuries this country has perpetuated philosophies that flow throughout the system to disenfranchise and even destroy young African-American male lives," he said at an impromptu rally in downtown Durham. "This is just another story."
Many Americans, black and white, echoed Leak's frustrations Sunday.
But many others - even more than a few who decried the death of an unarmed young black man at the hands of an overzealous neighborhood watch volunteer - welcomed or at least acknowledged that the justice system had worked.
Whatever the details of the altercation between Martin and Zimmerman that led to the fatal shot, whatever Zimmerman's motivations and prejudices, the six-woman jury felt and most legal observers agreed that the state failed to prove manslaughter, much less murder, beyond a reasonable doubt.
The trial and verdict, like the shooting itself, have evoked a range of emotions in no small part because the case has provoked yet another in our seemingly unending debate over race in modern America. It is seemingly unending, of course, because questions of race and prejudice are so deeply embedded in a history of a country that, founded on the premise that "all men are created equal," nonetheless first enslaved and then repressed African Americans.
Even as protesters were gathering here and around the nation to react to the verdict, a University of Florida professor was recalling for an audience at the Durham County Public Library signs that through the mid-20th century often warned "No dogs, negroes, Mexicans."
"When you focus on African-American and Latin American histories, it's not a story of progress or how we're gaining more equality from decade to decade," Paul Ortiz in his presentation on the history of Jim Crow/Juan Crow, the system of systematic and legal discrimination that characterized the South for a century after Reconstruction.
A generation is hardly enough time to erase the memory and the scars from all those years of mistreatment. So it's no surprise that many people, black and white, viewed Martin's death as another example of the marginalization of young black males.
The Martin case became, as these cases often do, a peg on which people of widely varying opinions could hang their world perspectives and their ideology. But it was, as these cases often are, a terribly imperfect vehicle for the larger conversation.
We correctly have established a justice system where the burden of proof is a heavy one (although, in keeping with our complex narrative on this subject, many feel that even now that burden is lighter when African-American men are in the dock).
"Trials, for better or worse, are not morality plays," Michael Band, a Florida defense lawyer not affiliated with the case, told The New York Times.
We'll continue to watch and perform in that morality play on many different stages, however.
