Engineer speaks
out after derailment
The engineer, Thomas Harding, who parked the oil train that rolled away, derailed and exploded in the center of a Quebec town was heard from Tuesday for the first time since the July 6 disaster that killed 50 people, with his lawyer saying he is "devastated." 
The Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway train hurtled down a seven-mile incline, derailed and ignited in Lac-Megantic, near the Maine border. All but one of its 73 cars was carrying oil, and at least five exploded.
Harding had left the train unattended overnight to sleep at a local inn shortly before it barreled into town. Thirty-eight bodies have been recovered, and authorities continue to look for 12 bodies amid intense heat and hazardous conditions.
Harding has been suspended without pay.
Judge to schedule
Sept. Arias trial
A judge in Jodi Arias' murder case says she expects to set a new trial date for late September.
During a hearing Tuesday in Phoenix, Judge Sherry Stephens gave attorneys additional time to file motions as Arias' lawyers want the jury's finding that made her eligible for the death penalty vacated.
A new hearing was set for Aug. 26.
Arias was convicted of murder May 8 in the death of boyfriend Travis Alexander.
The same jury failed to reach a unanimous decision on whether to sentence Arias to life in prison or death.
Arias admitted she killed Alexander, but claimed self-defense.
Sharpton to have
rallies in 100 cities
The Rev. Al Sharpton says there will be vigils and rallies in 100 cities this weekend to press for federal civil rights charges against George Zimmerman.
Zimmerman's acquittal over the weekend in the shooting death of unarmed teenager Trayvon Martin has touched off protests around the country.
Sharpton announced the plan Tuesday at a news conference outside the Justice Department with several ministers. He did not say which cities are involved, but did say the rallies and vigils will be staged Saturday at federal buildings.
The Justice Department is investigating whether Zimmerman violated Martin's civil rights when he shot the 17-year-old during a February 2012 confrontation in Sanford, Fla. Zimmerman said he fired his gun in self-defense.
A six-member jury acquitted Zimmerman of second-degree murder and manslaughter charges.
N.Y. man pleads in Deen extortion plot
A New York man has pleaded not guilty to charges he tried to extort embattled celebrity cook Paula Deen.
Federal court documents show Thomas George Paculis, of Newfield, N.Y. appeared in Chatham County Superior Court on Tuesday morning to enter his not guilty plea.
An indictment filed July 10 in U.S. District Court in Savannah charges Paculis with trying to extort Deen of $200,000 in exchange for keeping quiet about allegedly damaging remarks Deen has made in the past. Details on what Deen's alleged remarks were, and the relationship between Paculis and Deen, is unclear.
A call to Paculis' court-appointed attorney was not answered.
The case took form after Deen's culinary empire began crumbing in response to her acknowledging during a deposition that she used racial slurs in the past.
COMPILED FROM WIRE REPORTS
