Reactions to not guilty verdict in Zimmerman trial
Re: "Zimmerman not guilty; A jury clears him of all charges in the shooting death of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin," July 14 news story.
Saturday's verdict will be remembered as one of shame and disregard for human life. An innocent boy was gunned down and it seems that his life was not worthy enough to receive the justice that he deserved. It pains me to say this, but racism is alive and well in our country, and especially in Florida, where I lived for some time and experienced it myself, not because of my race, but because of my origin.
The six women who acquitted George Zimmerman will have to live with their decision for the rest of their lives, and I feel compassion for them. The message they sent by their action is that it is OK to kill without any consequences. 
It is said that our country has the best judicial system in the world, but after what happened Saturday in Florida, it sounds hollow and untrue.
Carmen C. Gorgas, Denver
* * *
Every homicide is tragic, even more so when the killer is neither found nor charged. Justice occurs when a defendant receives a trial by a jury of his peers who consider the facts and the law and render a verdict.
Those who express outrage, anger or disappointment at the outcome of the Zimmerman trial do not believe in justice and should closely re examine their own racial prejudices (for those not paying attention, there was not a single white male on the jury).
Better yet, they should redirect their energies toward seeking justice for the 100 plus black victims of homicide in Chicago this year alone (19 in the first week of July) who barely warranted a mention in their local newspapers, much less a national media frenzy fueled by pundits in the racial industrial complex.
Don Gallo, Golden
* * *
For those angry or hurt by the Zimmerman verdict: What evidence presented at trial convinced you that George Zimmerman was guilty of murder? For those in the media who have been stoking this thing from the start: What evidence convinced you that Zimmerman was guilty of murder? Make a case. "Try" him in the media for real, this time. Present the evidence. Certainly, there was no evidence for murder presented at trial.
David Gibson, Aurora
* * *
Facts: Adult white male exits his vehicle with a loaded handgun in the rain, follows black youth, though told not to, confronts and shoots him dead. No witnesses. Not arrested. Crime scene not secured nor evidence preserved. National protest. Police finally investigate, killer charged and prosecuted. Nation watches. Local jury verdict: not guilty. Now what?
Jim Engelking, Golden
Gov. Perry's comments on Texas abortion law
Re: "Dems vow to keep fighting bill; Republicans celebrate passage of abortion restrictions, but tests loom in courts, at polls," July 14 news story.
Wow the irony is overwhelming! Regarding the recent passage of abortion restrictions in Texas, Gov. Rick Perry said, "Today the Texas Legislature took its final step in our historic effort to protect life." Really? Texas has executed more than 1,250 people and there are more than 290 currently on death row.
Karen Snyder, Aurora
Medicare cuts hit dialysis too hard
As a dialysis professional, I care for chronically ill patients. So I'm concerned about "fiscal cliff" budget cuts announced July 1. Severe Medicare cuts could reduce dialysis services and force clinic closures just as kidney disease is escalating. It's heartbreaking and unjust to make critically ill people accept reduced care or travel longer distances for life saving dialysis.
Kidney disease affects 1 in 7 Americans and is the eighth leading cause of death. As the disease progresses to kidney failure, individuals must seek transplantation or get dialysis three times a week to stay alive. In Colorado, 6,265 people have kidney failure, a 19 percent increase since 2005.
Dialysis is a lifeline to survival, so Medicare covers the cost of dialysis, regardless of age. Ninety percent of our patients are Medicare beneficiaries. Medicare barely covers the cost of dialysis care now, and new cuts would be devastating. Congress must protect people with kidney failure.
Luca Chiastra, Greenwood VillageThe writer is a regional vice president for Fresenius Medical Care.
