US President Barack Obama has appealed to Americans for restraint amid anger from civil rights activists and public protests against the acquittal of a man who gunned down an unarmed black teenager. 
A Florida jury comprising six women -- reportedly five white and a hispanic -- late on Saturday found neighbourhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman not guilty of murdering TrayvonMartin, after a long and racially-charged trial that transfixed much of the US for weeks.
Mr Zimmerman, 29, was charged with second-degree murder, having pursued Martin, 17, through a gated community in the town of Sanford, eventually shooting him during an altercation on the rainy night of February 26, last year.
The trial aroused strong passions and divided those who believed that Mr Zimmerman -- whose father is white and mother is Peruvian -- had racially-profiled Martin, and those who believed he acted in self-defence.
Spontaneous protests broke out in San Francisco, Philadelphia, Chicago, Washington and Atlanta overnight, following the verdict, although they were mostly peaceful.
On Sunday, a large demonstration in New York attracted several thousand people, with placards that read, ``Jail racist killers, not black youth'', and ``We are all Trayvon. The whole damn system is guilty.''
However, Mr Obama, the first black US president, urged people to accept the trial verdict.
``We are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken,'' Mr Obama said in a statement. ``I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son.''
The president tied the killing of the teenager to the problems surrounding gun use in the United States -- he had tried but failed to push through new control measures in the US congress earlier this year.
``We should ask ourselves, as individuals and as a society, how we can prevent future tragedies like this. As citizens, that's a job for all of us. That's the way to honour TrayvonMartin,'' Mr Obama said.
The Department of Justice said on Sunday it continued to have an open investigation into the case, following the Florida trial.
``Experienced federal prosecutors will determine whether the evidence reveals a prosecutable violation of any of the limited federal criminal civil rights statutes within our jurisdiction,'' it said in a statement.
