To the Editor:
Re ''Zimmerman Is Acquitted in TrayvonMartin Killing'' (front page, July 14):
When I learned of the not guilty verdict in the trial of George Zimmerman, my first reaction was one of sympathy for the family members of TrayvonMartin. They were dealt a life sentence of pain, never knowing precisely what happened on that fateful night because the only person alive to tell the story is the one who shot their son to death.
The jury, which sifted through a mountain of testimony and evidence, obviously concluded that Mr. Zimmerman acted in self-defense, that it was his voice heard on tape crying for help. Its verdict must be accepted. 
The outcome in the case creates no winners. The Martin family has lost a son under the worst circumstances, and Mr. Zimmerman, who will always be believed guilty of murder by many, can go nowhere within this country without being recognized and disparaged.
Our nation, which has followed the case with intense interest, is left to wonder what would have happened had Mr. Zimmerman left police work to the police, as a dispatcher had asked him to do.
OREN M. SPIEGLER Upper St. Clair, Pa., July 14, 2013
To the Editor:
Despite the rhetoric on both sides, the criminal justice system sometimes works as it is supposed to. George Zimmerman should have been charged. He ignored a direct police order not to follow TrayvonMartin, he initiated the encounter, and he intentionally shot and killed an unarmed teenager. His statements about the events were inconsistent, and there was evidence he was the aggressor. In legal terms, there was definitely ''probable cause'' to charge Mr. Zimmerman with second-degree murder.
The prosecution presented its case, warts and all (with a few self-inflicted wounds no doubt), and the jury unanimously decided that there was not proof beyond a reasonable doubt of Mr. Zimmerman's guilt. Whether one likes the results or not, based on an objective assessment of the evidence, the jurors made the right decision. In short, the case played out as it should have.
Now let's hope the civil justice system works just as well, and Mr. Zimmerman is sued, found liable and forced to pay damages.
JOHN BLUME Ithaca, N.Y., July 14, 2013
The writer is a professor at Cornell Law School and teaches criminal procedure and evidence.
To the Editor:
Numerous studies show that the presence of even one minority juror changes for the better how the jury as a whole deliberates. Representative juries consider more evidence from more points of view with more collective recall of the facts. This makes it imperative to consider why jury selection in the George Zimmerman trial, like jury selection in so many counties in the United States, continues to underrepresent African-Americans.
African-Americans make up about 11.8 percent of the population of Seminole County, from which the Zimmerman jury was drawn, but not a single African-American made it onto the actual jury.
We have no objective measure of what counts as a ''right'' verdict in the Zimmerman case. All we have are reasons to believe that the jury works well when it has the democratic credentials to speak for the whole community. No matter how well intentioned the Zimmerman jurors were as individuals, they did not form a democratic whole.
JEFFREY ABRAMSON Truro, Mass., July 14, 2013
The writer, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin School of Law, is author of ''We, the Jury: The Jury System and the Ideal of Democracy.''
To the Editor:
An important lesson in the George Zimmerman case is largely ignored. It doesn't matter if you are a private citizen, a neighborhood watch captain or a community watch coordinator. If you see something suspicious, don't intervene; call 911. Let the professionals deal with the issue.
The most likely outcome is, if indeed the suspicious person has larceny on his mind, he will leave when the police come by. A crime prevented is better than a crime being prosecuted.
ANTHONY WARAKSA Durham, N.C., July 14, 2013
The writer is a community watch coordinator.
To the Editor:
The trial of George Zimmerman focused largely on who was the aggressor in the physical fight they had. But some people did not even entertain the possibility that TrayvonMartin may have been acting in self-defense -- that's where racism comes in. He was the one being followed by an armed man for no apparent reason.
While I realize that Mr. Zimmerman may have erroneously thought that Mr. Martin was a threat, this incident illustrates why if one is not under immediate threat, it is best to leave these matters to the police. The last thing we need is rampant untrained citizen vigilantism, or we are bound to have more TrayvonMartins.
DEBORAH MORAN Houston, July 14, 2013
To the Editor:
The racial dimensions of the TrayvonMartin case have been explored at length. What is rarely mentioned is what is most obvious about this tragic incident: George Zimmerman was walking around a common area (not his own personal property) with a loaded handgun when he confronted Mr. Martin. This is legal in Florida.
A citizen ''on patrol'' should be armed with a cellphone and nothing more. Had this been the case, Mr. Martin would be alive. End of story.
TIM LEHNERT Cranston, R.I., July 15, 2013
