IT'S 1am and four of us are driving home after a show. What would have been a jolly mood is tainted by a heaviness that has laid siege to the conversation in the car.  One voice is speaking softly on the phone. The conversation turns my blood into ice.  
  The voice is that of a father talking to his 12-year-old son. The son is scared.  News that George Zimmerman was found not guilty of stalking and killing 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in the US broke two hours ago.  The father is counselling his son and reinforcing the beauty of his blackness.  At 12, the son has already experienced enough racism to feel scared and helpless at this news. The father keeps contradicting himself: "Keep your feet on the ground and focus on your studies; don't draw unnecessary attention to yourself; comply with the law, but don't allow anyone to make you feel small."  The father is planning to move to Costa Rica with his family, where his sons will grow up away from the cloud of racial profiling that hangs over the black man in America.  I remember during President Barack Obama's visit to South Africa, there were a lot of complaints about his bodyguards stopping and frisking black men.  Nzinga Qunta sent a Tweet to the US Embassy of this travesty: "We're not in the US. Please get your people to stop randomly harassing black men. We don't do that here". Imagine having to tell your 12-year-old son that the colour of his skin is a battleground. That his masculinity cements his oppression.  My son is eight. He is beautiful and has an innocent charm that I want to preserve for as long as I can. He is aware that he is brown with nappy hair and that not all children look like him. Beyond that, he sees no other differences.  In the playground, race is not a factor.  I am sure I will have to have a conversation about racism with my son at some point. It won't be because he experiences overt institutionalised racism, but because we still live in a racialised society. It won't be because the colour of his skin poses a mortal danger to his life, but because the colour of his skin might prevent him from getting THAT job. When racism is upheld by the state, it gives freedom to evil to perpetrate unspeakable atrocities without much fear of consequences.  The conversation the father was having with his son is haunting me. I had to ask if it was that bad because it seemed ridiculous to me. I wanted to stop him and say people do not talk like that anymore, that the conversation belonged in the 1930s and in the times of lynchings. That the black and proud chant was no longer needed as the black man was now free to create his own destiny.  Then, I remembered Martin, who is dead. I remembered that a few hours earlier, his killer was freed to roam the streets. He was found not guilty.  I cannot bring myself to accept that the US, the land of the free, allows this to happen within its borders. Put aside criminalising black men; criminalising black children serves as more than just a human rights violation, it is an abortion of justice.  Had Martin been white ... I do not even have to finish this sentence.  What gives me hope is that I know that Americans are fighters. They take nothing lying down. Every inch of freedom black Americans gained was hard earned. I know that they will fight for Martin until the end because their children's lives are at stake if they do not. They will petition, raise funds, march, do whatever they can do because evil reigns supreme when good people do nothing.
