The outcry over the acquittal of George Zimmerman by a Florida jury has been heard from New York to Los Angeles to Milwaukee to Madison. Supporters of civil rights are, as NAACP President Ben Jealous says, "outraged and heartbroken."
In a message posted on the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People's website, Jealous declared, "We are not done demanding justice for TrayvonMartin." 
What's vital is that civil rights groups are turning their disappointment toward appropriate calls to action in the killing of the teenager.
On Sunday afternoon, the Department of Justice announced that the case was under review. "Experienced federal prosecutors will determine whether the evidence reveals a prosecutable violation of any of the limited federal criminal civil rights statutes within our jurisdiction,'' read a department statement, adding that the review would determine ''whether federal prosecution is appropriate in accordance with the department's policy governing successive federal prosecution following a state trial.''
The formal language describes a first step that, while it is encouraging for civil rights organizations, does not ensure that the Justice Department will seek justice for Trayvon by filing civil rights charges against Zimmerman.
The NAACP and other groups are arguing that there are clear grounds for intervention by the department.
As part of the NAACP campaign to get the Justice Department to open a civil rights case against Zimmerman, Jealous urged Americans to sign a petition to Attorney General Eric Holder that declares: "The most fundamental of civil rights - the right to life - was violated the night George Zimmerman stalked and then took the life of TrayvonMartin. We ask that the Department of Justice file civil rights charges against Mr. Zimmerman for this egregious violation."
More than 350,000 Americans signed the petition within hours. And other civil rights groups echoed the demand for Justice Department action. Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law President Barbara Arnwine said that while the verdict "represents a tragic miscarriage of justice," she believes "there is still the potential for justice to be served through a civil suit brought about by TrayvonMartin's surviving family members, and also through civil rights charges being brought against Mr. Zimmerman by the Department of Justice."
In addition to pressing for action at the federal level, the NAACP and other groups were turning attention to state capitols.
Jealous coupled his announcement of the petition with a call for the outlawing of racial profiling and a renewed commitment to "fight for the removal of stand-your-ground laws in every state."
Florida passed its stand-your-ground law in 2005. Since then, at the behest of the National Rifle Association and the American Legislative Exchange Council, variations on the legislation - which allows individuals who say they believe they're in imminent danger to use deadly force - have been enacted by states across the country. After the killing of Trayvon on Feb. 26, 2012, as media outlets in Florida and nationally have reported: "Police initially did not charge Zimmerman with a crime, citing Florida's stand-your-ground law."
Zimmerman, who faced charges only after a national outcry forced a review of the case, did not mount a specific stand-your-ground defense. But the issue remained a bone of contention before and during his trial; notably, the jury heard from a witness who recalled teaching about Florida's law in a college course that the defendant completed in 2010.
The sustained outcry over the shooting of Trayvon appears to have led the NRA and ALEC to halt advocacy on behalf of stand-your-ground laws. But the laws continue to influence criminal justice nationwide, as the Madison-based Center for Media and Democracy has documented.
The NAACP, the Urban League, and Color of Change were among many groups that pressed ALEC on the stand-your-ground issue in 2012. Several groups are urging legislators to strike the laws from state statute books.
"Florida's dangerous 'shoot first' law allowed Trayvon's killer to walk free without charges for more than a month. Shoot first legalizes vigilante homicide, has demonstrated racial bias in its application, and has led to an increase in gun-related deaths in the more than two dozen states where it has been passed into law," argues Color of Change. "These laws give individual gun owners a greater right to shoot and kill than the rules of engagement for our military during times of war grant to soldiers in war zones. 'Shoot first' must be repealed now to protect families and communities and prevent senseless deaths."
Referencing a Texas A&M study that revealed how stand-your-ground and castle doctrine laws have been linked to increased rates of homicide, the NAACP's Jealous has said that "stand-your-ground legislation does more harm than good."
"Too often these laws provide cover for vigilantes and hate groups who choose to take the law into their own hand," he argued in 2012. "They have led to an increase in homicides, and people of color seem to always get caught in the crossfire."
