ZIMMERMAN TRIAL
Verdict is distressing,
backs vigilante action
The most distressing aspect of the case which vindicated George Zimmerman's killing of Trayvon Martin was not the racial/ethnic one. 
The most troubling message sent by this verdict is that vigilantism is acceptable and justifiable in just about any situation. The fact that the person who was vindicated was armed, while the person killed was unarmed, was evidently not important. The fact that the killer --- for that is what he ultimately was --- ignored instructions from law enforcement to not pursue the victim but chose to escalate the situation, which resulted in a fatal shooting, was not relevant, either. Evidently, the only thing that was relevant was that Zimmerman thought Martin had no business being there --- so Zimmerman was entitled to confront him and make him leave.
The verdict has communicated to anyone inclined to take matters into their own hands that it is OK to do so. Some will interpret this as an "open season." Heaven help us. FRANK S. LOULAN, JONESBORO
HEALTH CARE
Caregivers reacted to
government meddling
Regarding "Hospitals buy out, cash in" (News, July 7 ), which reported on the partnership between Northside Hospital, Atlanta Cancer Care and Georgia Cancer Specialists, the focus was on the rise in costs to patients and the need for clinicians to adopt business practices to continue to deliver care. The article didn't include the reason why.
There is nothing wrong with health care in America, and there never has been. The problem is four decades of government regulation and federal manipulation of artificially contrived compensation formulas. But for government interference, Northside Hospital, Atlanta Cancer Care and Georgia Cancer Specialists would all be capable of delivering top-quality care independently and at a cost that would be sensible and affordable. Sometimes, understanding the "why" of a story is the most interesting aspect. DENNIS MCGOWAN, SNELLVILLE
NUDE DANCING
Survey would show
if activity is harmful
Regarding "'And the Atlanta clubs went nude the next day'" (Metro, July 7), the U.S. Supreme Court regards nude dancing as near the outer limits of free speech, and as such, would likely restrict or even ban it if enough evil effects could be proven.
Thus, I'd love to see the results of a survey showing how many (and what percentage) of nude dancers have been led into drug use and prostitution via this activity because of the likely need to dull the senses, and the ensuing result.
Clubs will say that neither is permitted and that many or most dancers escape these pitfalls --- but a simple survey would provide the truth so that action, if appropriate, could be taken. ROBERT J. THOMAS SR., LILBURN
