The White House says President Barack Obama will not involve himself in decisions by the Justice Department on whether to pursue civil rights charges against George Zimmerman in the shooting death of TrayvonMartin.
White House spokesperson Jay Carney says it would be inappropriate for Obama to express an opinion on how the department deals with Zimmerman after the neighbourhood watch volunteer's acquittal in the shooting of the unarmed 17-year-old last year.
Critics of Saturday's verdict have called for the Justice Department to step in.
The Justice Department has said it is investigating whether federal criminal civil rights charges are warranted.
Carney would not comment on Obama's view of Florida's "stand-your-ground" law, which gives people wide latitude to use deadly force if they fear death or bodily harm.
Meanwhile, just two days after George Zimmerman was found not guilty in the shooting death of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, a book agent Monday confirmed that one of the jurors who reached that verdict plans to write a book about the high-profile trial.
Literary and media manager Sharlene Martin said she has signed the juror, publicly known only as B-37, the designation she was given in jury selection, and her husband to write a book describing her experience as a juror and explaining the controversial verdict she and the five other jurors reached.
"My hope is that people will read Juror B37's book, written with her attorney husband, and understand the commitment it takes to serve and be sequestered on a jury in a highly publicized murder trial and how important, despite one's personal viewpoints, it is to follow the letter of the law," Martin said in a statement. "It could open a whole new dialogue about laws that may need to be revised and revamped to suit a 21st century way of life.
"The reader will also learn why the jurors had no option but to find Zimmerman not guilty due to the manner in which he was charged and the content of the jury instructions," the statement says.
The six-member jury panel deliberated about 16 hours before returning a not-guilty verdict. Zimmerman was charged with second-degree murder, and jurors were also allowed to consider manslaughter.
