An anonymous juror in the George Zimmerman trial is no longer writing a tell-all book after saying on CNN that an unarmed Trayvon Martin was partly to blame for his fate while his killer's "heart was in the right place." 
The woman, known as Juror B37, said she was unaware while sequestered of the widespread anger surrounding the racially charged case. Now, she said, "I have realized that the best direction for me to go is away."
After the interview, she said in a statement that she'd changed her mind about writing the book with her husband, a lawyer, after signing a contract to do so earlier Monday.
But it emerged Tuesday that the juror's literary agent, Sharlene Martin, was the first to have a change of heart following hours of social media pressure. One Twitter user with the handle @MoreAndAgain got the ball rolling while watching the interview.
"Hey @sharlenemartin, please drop Juror B37," one of the tweets read. "Do not let a person who helped a murderer get away profit from this tragedy."
A Change.org petition was also circulated, asking Martin to end her representation of the juror. By 1 a.m., she reportedly tweeted that she'd reconsidered.
Juror B37 has further angered Americans dismayed by the not-guilty verdict handed down to Zimmerman over the weekend. The case has reopened wounds in a country where racial tensions still simmer.
Martin, a black 17-year-old, was walking to his father's house in Sanford, Fla., when he caught the eye of Zimmerman, an armed neighbourhood watch guard who began following him. Martin died after an altercation between the two.
Zimmerman was charged with second-degree murder. Jurors were also allowed to consider manslaughter.
Protests against the verdict are showing no signs of abating. Civil rights leaders announced Tuesday that they're organizing vigils and rallies in 100 American cities this weekend to pressure the Department of Justice to lay federal charges against Zimmerman. The department says it's investigating whether civil rights charges can be laid.
Police and civic leaders braced for more unrest on Tuesday after nearly two dozen protesters were arrested in Los Angeles and Oakland. Los Angeles police said Monday night's disturbances involved about 150 people who broke off from an otherwise peaceful prayer vigil for Martin. Vandals set trash on fire, smashed windows and assaulted a television news crew during several hours of unrest on Monday night.
Meanwhile, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder assailed Stand Your Ground laws on Tuesday, suggesting they encourage violence and "undermine public safety." Under the law, an aggressor can claim self-defence in the middle of an altercation - and use deadly force if deemed necessary.
"It's time to question laws that senselessly expand the concept of self-defence and sow dangerous conflict in our neighbourhoods," Holder said in a speech to the NAACP.
With files from Star wire services
