Trayvon Martin never had a chance -- not in his encounter with George Zimmerman, in which a teenager with a bag of candy confronted a hothead with a gun, and not by proxy when his grieving parents encountered the "justice" system. 
It would be easy to write off the verdict clearing Mr. Zimmerman as one of those periodic courtroom aberrations or another horror story to come out of Florida, but that would be too easy. From violent beginning to disturbing end, the Martin-Zimmerman saga speaks volumes about racism and racial profiling in America, as well as the gun violence that sickens America like a persistent bacterial virus.
The 17-year-old Mr. Martin was found guilty of walking while black by Mr. Zimmerman, a wannabe cop and gun-toting, self-appointed neighborhood watchdog with a criminal record who saw a young black man in a hooded sweatshirt and profiled him as one of those criminals who always get away with it. Ignoring the admonitions of a 911 operator who told him to stay in his car, Mr. Zimmerman began stalking Mr. Martin as the young man walked from a 7-11 to the home of his father's girlfriend. A confrontation ensued. Mr. Zimmerman ended up with some cuts and bruises, Mr. Martin ended up dead from a bullet wound. A Florida jury heard all of this and found Mr. Zimmerman innocent of any crimes.
The jury's verdict neatly bookends the behavior of police in Sanford, Florida, when they arrived at the crime scene in February of last year. They found Mr. Zimmerman, his gun, and the dead, unarmed 17-year-old, and sent Mr. Zimmerman on his way. Nothing to see here. Only a nation's outrage when the shooting finally came to light six weeks later forced authorities to grudgingly pursue an investigation and bring charges.
Florida's indefensible shoot-first-and-ask-questions-later gun law, which allows someone who feels "threatened" to come out with guns blazing, enabled Mr. Zimmerman's actions. The verdicts will cement this law in place, and worse, inspire other trigger-happy state governments to pass similar laws, setting the stage for similar horrific incidents.
Once again, the nation is outraged, but its outrage must go no further than peaceful marches and protests. Resorting to violence is how the Zimmermans of the world behave. America has come far since the civil rights era, but it plainly has a long way to go when it comes to eradicating racist stereotypes. As for America's love of guns and predilection for violence, things only seem to get worse.
