U.S. Attorney-General eric Holder, in his first remarks since George Zimmerman was cleared of state charges in the fatal shooting of black teenager TrayvonMartin, called the killing an opportunity to have a "difficult dialogue" on racially charged issues.
Mr. Holder, whose Justice department is still considering whether to bring civil rights charges against Mr. Zimmerman, said the killing was a "tragic, unnecessary shooting death." 
"I believe that this tragedy provides yet another opportunity for our nation to speak honestly about the complicated and emotionally charged issues that this case has raised," Mr. Holder said in a speech to the national convention of the delta Sigma Theta sorority in Washington. "We must not - as we have too often in the past - let this opportunity pass.
"We are resolved, as you are, to combat violence involving or directed at young people, to prevent future tragedies and to deal with the underlying attitudes, mistaken beliefs and stereotypes that serve as the basis for these too common incidents."
On Tuesday, Mr. Holder travels to Florida to address the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). The organization has circulated a petition calling on the Justice department to file charges against Mr. Zimmerman.
Prosecutors who tried Mr. Zimmerman, 29, said the case was never about race. But in the aftermath of Mr. Zimmerman being found not guilty of second-degree murder, race is the dominant theme at play.
On Sunday, thousands demonstrated throughout the country with signs saying "Justice for Trayvon."
At a march and rally in downtown Chicago, some said the verdict was symbolic of lingering racism in the united States. Seventy-three-year-old Maya Miller said the case reminded her of the 1955 slaying of emmitt Till, a 14-yearold from Chicago who was murdered by a group of white men while visiting Mississippi. emmitt's killing galvanized the civil rights movement.
"Fifty-eight years and nothing's changed," Ms. Miller said. Rand Powdrill, 41, of San Leandro, marched in San Francisco to "protest the execution of an innocent black teenager."
Mr. Holder, the country's first black attorney-general, began an investigation in March 2012, the month after the death of Mr. Martin, 17.
"Experienced federal prosecutors will determine whether the evidence reveals a prosecutable violation of any of the limited federal criminal civil rights statutes within our jurisdiction, and whether federal prosecution is appropriate in accordance with the department's policy governing successive federal prosecution following a state trial," the Justice department said Sunday.
But such a case would be difficult to bring, according to former federal prosecutors in the department's civil rights division.
Samuel Bagenstos, the former No. 2 official in the Justice department's civil rights division under Mr. Holder, said that based on what he has seen, it would be "very difficult to prove beyond a reasonable doubt" that Mr. Zimmerman was motivated by race when he followed and, after a fight, eventually killed Mr. Martin.
"To prove what's on somebody's mind is always difficult," said Mr. Bagenstos, now a law professor at the university of Michigan.
"To prove what's on somebody's mind in a fight that took place between two people, one of whom is dead, the other of whom doesn't have to testify and with no other witnesses around to hear what he has to say, is very, very difficult."
Don West, one of Mr. Zimmerman's attorneys, said he did not "think the federal investigation will develop into any sort of charges."
"Absolutely nothing would suggest that this was a hate crime in any way whatsoever," he said.
Prosecutors alleged Mr. Zimmerman, whose father is white and mother is Hispanic, profiled Mr. Martin as a criminal suspect, then followed and confronted him, leading to the altercation in which the unarmed youth was killed.
Defence lawyers argued Mr. Zimmerman acted in self-defence, fearing for his life after Mr. Martin punched him in the face, knocked him to the ground and then pounded his head against the pavement.
Mr. Zimmerman told police he drew the legally concealed nine-millimetre pistol he carried after Mr. Martin told him "you're going to die tonight."
The six-woman jury on Saturday found Mr. Zimmerman not guilty of murder or the lesser possible charge of manslaughter for shooting Mr. Martin through the heart during a struggle at the townhouse complex where the youth was staying at the home of his father's girlfriend.
President Barack Obama, while acknowledging the case has "elicited strong passions" called on the country to "respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son."
"We are a nation of laws and a jury has spoken," Mr. Obama said in a statement Sunday.
