Appeal filed in Blagojevich conviction, sentencing
Lawyers for Rod Blagojevich filed an appeal Monday challenging the imprisoned former Illinois governor's corruption conviction and stiff, 14-year prison term.
The lengthy filing with the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago comes more than two years after the Chicago Democrat's retrial and 16 months after he entered a federal prison in Colorado.
Jurors convicted Blagojevich, 56, of engaging in wide-ranging corruption, including that the two-term governor sought to profit from his power to appoint someone to the U.S. Senate seat that Barack Obama vacated to become president. 
The appeal cites a juror who allegedly expressed a bias against Blagojevich who was seated despite the objections of defense attorneys. It also raises longstanding claims that Judge James Zagel barred FBI wiretap evidence that might have aided the defense and argues the judge miscalculated the appropriate prison term. The appeal was filed about 30 minutes before a midnight deadline to do so.
Public to get information in Yahoo case o Yahoo has won a court fight that could help the public learn more about the government's efforts to obtain data from Internet users. The U.S. Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, which reviews government requests to spy on individuals, ruled Monday that information should be made public about a 2008 case that ordered Yahoo Inc. to turn over customer data. The order requires the government to review which portions of the opinion, briefs and arguments can be declassified.
Petraeus to teach for $1 o Former CIA director David Petraeus is taking a big salary cut for his visiting professorship at the City University of New York's honors college after being criticized for how much he was getting paid. Petraeus, a hero of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars who quit the CIA in scandal last November after it was uncovered he'd had an affair with his biographer, will teach a seminar at Macaulay Honors College in the next academic year for $1, The New York Times reported Monday. That's down quite a bit from the $200,000 that Gawker.com first reported he was getting paid based on documents it obtained.
Man wakes with amnesia, new language o Four months after he was found unconscious in a motel in Palm Springs, Calif., doctors are looking into the mystery of a Florida man who awoke with no memory of his past and speaking only Swedish. Michael Boatwright, 61, woke up with amnesia, calling himself Johan Ek, The Desert Sun reports.
Hospital officials said Boatwright may have been in town for a tennis tournament in the Coachella Valley. He was found with a duffel bag of exercise clothes, a backpack and tennis rackets. He also carried four forms of identification - a passport, a California identification card, a veteran's medical card and a Social Security card - all of which identified him as Michael Thomas Boatwright.
California won't stop same-sex marriage o The California Supreme Court refused Monday to order the state to immediately stop issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples. However, the court still plans to consider whether the governor and attorney general correctly instructed county clerks that a voter-approved ban on gay marriages had become legally invalid statewide.
Judge weighs case pursuing damages for World Trade Center o A federal judge began Monday listening to testimony that will help him decide whether the owners of the World Trade Center buildings destroyed in the Sept. 11 attacks can pursue billions of dollars in damages from aviation companies linked to the hijacked planes. U.S. District Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein in Manhattan plans to announce his decision as soon as several witnesses conclude testifying in the trial, expected to last about three days.
Georgia execution is stayed o A judge has temporarily stayed a Georgia inmate's scheduled execution Monday, after attorneys raised questions involving the state's supply of execution drugs. A lawyer for Warren Lee Hill said the judge planned a hearing Thursday.
Jurors picked in teen slaying in Milwaukee o Jurors were selected Monday in the case of a white man, 76, charged with gunning down a black boy, 13, last year on a Milwaukee sidewalk over a theft allegation. In the Milwaukee shooting, which has been compared to the Florida case of George Zimmerman and Trayvon Martin, John Henry Spooner is charged with first-degree intentional homicide in the May 2012 death of his next-door neighbor, Darius Simmons, whom Spooner suspected of breaking into his home and stealing guns.
