My son, who is now 21, used to have a fondness for Irn-Bru.
Irn-Bru is a carbonated drink manufactured in Scotland, vividly orange in colour. Its main ingredient, after carbonated water, is sugar, and a 250 millilitre portion runs to 107 calories. My daughter drew my attention to a controversy, reported by The Guardian, over a recent Irn-Bru ad, which you can find on YouTube.
The ad features a mom who's just purchased (and is wearing) a new push-up bra, which she's not afraid to talk about, together with her embarrassed adolescent son and his two fascinated friends. They are fascinated not by the garment but by what is being pushed up. 
The son's embarrassment is caused by the contrast between the mother's self-confidence in talking about her bra to her son and his hormone-filled friends' fascination with his mother's breasts. He pauses to take a swig of Irn-Bru and his embarrassment disappears as he becomes able to respond to his mom as a real person. Unlike his Irn-Bruless friends.
My first response was to think that the ad was outrageous; it sexualized a mother and objectified a woman in a politically incorrect way. I was about to write an apoplectic letter to the editor urging that the ad be banned.
Then I had second thoughts, so I showed the ad to my son and asked him what he thought of it. He told me it was all about mortification and embarrassment.
That answer made me pause. Two people, watching the same thing, have completely different interpretations. OMG.
I live in a different world from my children. My view of what the world is like and how it works was formed in the England of the 1950s and 1960s in a single-sex school. It was the era portrayed by Mad Men and the Cleaver family; the era of an Empire becoming independent; an age in which homosexuality was illegal.
My children's views were formed in the Canada of the last 25 years; the era of Degrassi High and The Simpsons; a predominantly liberal, multicultural, peacekeeping country that welcomed immigrants of all stripes; a time of gay pride and same-sex marriage.
The French philosopher Simone de Beauvoir said the male-dominated societies of her time saw women as other. To see someone as other is to see them and define them as you yourself are not.
Since you are a fully formed decent human being (obviously), then the other is not. To see someone as other is to dehumanize them, to stereotype them and to treat them as a thing rather than a person.
If we treat people as things, we can exclude them from our moral world.
We are free to do more or less whatever we like with objects. No one thinks it's wrong to kick a rock, because a thing doesn't have feelings and cannot feel pain.
If George Zimmerman sees Trayvon Martin as other, then for Zimmerman - and those who see all black people as other - it's OK to kill him because he's not a person. If we don't see others as people just like us, then it's OK to bully them.
If we don't see fellow students or co-workers as people just like us, then it's OK to be mean to them.
If we don't see children as people then it's OK to spank them.
If we don't see the homeless as people, then it's OK to ignore their plight.
It's hard to change the way we see the world, but the world changes. I need an Irn-Bru moment to help me deal with the world as it now is, my son doesn't.
I'm not suggesting that we should all carry vivid orange sugar-saturated drinks around with us to help us better cope with life's difficulties.Rather that in an uncomfortable situation we might try to act otherwise than we are naturally inclined to do; reflection before action may help us to become a better person.
Particularly when we see people as other.
