Honor the dead with love, not hate
If I were murdered, I would want to be honored by having people be kinder to one another, by loving one another, not by people harming or killing innocent people and damaging property in my name. Fostering this spirit of hate and vengeance does nothing positive and only fosters more division and hate. 
Martin Luther King Jr. put it this way: "Like an unchecked cancer, hate corrodes the personality and eats away its vital unity. Hate destroys a man's sense of values and his objectivity. It causes him to describe the beautiful as ugly and the ugly as beautiful, and to confuse the true with the false and the false with the true. Power at its best is love implementing the demands of justice. Justice at its best is love correcting everything that stands against love."
Alan J. Hall
San Jose
Boycott Florida to change their laws
It is my opinion that George Zimmerman is guilty of profiling and murder. It is also my opinion that many Floridians are also displeased with the trial's outcome.
The main problem is that the people have to abide by the laws of the state, and in Florida some laws are incomprehensible. The best way to show one's displeasure with this situation is to boycott Florida products and services. Instead of holding "peaceful marches" that result in injury and property damage in your state, attack the problem at its root. This will impact the profit margin of the big corporations associated with these goods and services, which will cause them to "persuade" their paid politicians to review and correct the shortcomings of the legal system and allow Florida to progress from the 20th century into the 21st.
Kaveh Haddad
San Mateo
Escalation makes a bad situation worse
Your editorial (Editorial, July 16) shows correctly that there was bad judgment on both Trayvon Martin's and George Zimmerman's part. Martin may well have "jumped" Zimmerman in a fit of stupid male teenage machismo. I am sure that most men can remember stupid things that they did as teenagers that could have had disastrous results. I know I can.
All the evidence I have seen is that Martin initiated the physical violence. When one escalates the confrontation from a verbal one to a physical one, bad things are likely to happen. The difference between Martin breaking Zimmerman's nose and pounding his head into a concrete walk is the difference between temporary discomfort and death or permanent damage.
I believe that most people in Zimmerman's situation would have done anything to stop that situation. Evidently the jury, after hearing all of the evidence, agreed that Zimmerman acted in self-defense.
Alan Newman
Milpitas
Texas not as behind as readers imply
As I read your reader jabs at the 19th century mentality in Texas, I couldn't help but think of Houston's Mayor Annise Parker, who is the first openly gay mayor of a major U.S. city. Couple this with the fact that her city just surpassed New York City as the most racially and ethnically diverse in the country, and it seems like folks are doing something right down there. Thankfully, we at least can be proud of our ranking as the country's snobbiest locale.
Steve Okonek
Half Moon Bay
