The acquittal of George Zimmerman in the TrayvonMartin shooting ends a criminal case but not the tragedy that will hover and haunt.
It doesn't change that the unarmed black teen was killed by Zimmerman, a white Latino, during a night-time February 2012 confrontation in a Sanford neighborhood.
It doesn't change that, given his full acquittal, Zimmerman spent months in agonizing legal limbo and now emerges with life and reputation forever altered. 
It doesn't change that we'll never truly know what happened the night Martin and Zimmerman met, as a hoodie-clad Martin walked to his father's girlfriend's house in the gated community that Zimmerman sought to patrol and protect as part of a neighborhood watch group.
POLOARIZING AND POLITICIZED
And it doesn't erase the shameful reality that during the nearly 18 months since Martin's death, the case has become so nationally polarizing and politicized that both the slain youth and acquitted defendant have ceased to be viewed as actual humans in the eyes of so many.
For that cynical, shameless lot - liberal and conservative alike - Martin and Zimmerman are nothing more than symbols that can be eagerly exploited to fit a myriad of self-centered agendas.
But the most enduring tragedy of the TrayvonMartin case may be yet to come: That will be if his death and Zimmerman's resulting acquittal yield no lasting lessons.
One overriding lesson of Zimmerman's trial and acquittal in this social-media age of snap judgments and instant verdicts is that the test of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt is often far more daunting than we want to believe.
BEYOND A REASONABLE DOUBT
And the bar of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that Zimmerman was guilty of murdering TrayvonMartin or even culpable on a manslaughter charge was far too high for prosecutors to ever clear.
Did Zimmerman shoot in self-defense because he was being savagely beaten by Martin? Which person was the one actually screaming for help on a tape?
If basic questions like these eluded definitive answers, how reasonable was it to expect a jury to push aside its heavy responsibility to be sure beyond a reasonable doubt and return a guilty verdict?
By all accounts, the Zimmerman trial jury assumed its burden with the serious gravity and deliberation that the case warranted.
In doing so, it met the only true obligation that we could demand from a committed jury.
Reasonable doubt was all that was needed to acquit George Zimmerman. And reasonable doubt was there - clearly.
The verdict should be accepted as such.
MORE LESSONS FROM THIS CASE
Here is another inescapable lesson of the Martin case: Racial profiling does take place in our country.
And TrayvonMartin was being racially profiled on the February 2012 night as he walked through the townhouse neighborhood where he was ultimately shot.
Martin was a young black male in a neighborhood that had experienced sporadic crime, mostly carried out by black males. He was a young black male wearing a hoodie at night - a visual image that in reality stirs an instant, visceral sense of unease in many people of all types.
It strains credibility to dismissively insist that if Martin wasn't who he was - wearing what he was, where he was - he would have been just as likely to be noticed by Zimmerman that winter night.
Or that someone else, totally different from Martin's profile, would have been as relentlessly followed by Zimmerman even after being advised by police to stop trailing Martin and avoid a confrontation.
As a society, we must continue to have a genuine dialogue about that reality and seek ways to change it.
If the Martin case does not lead to that conversation, it will be a lost opportunity - added to a lost life.
If the underlying racial tensions that lead to profiling and unjustified suspicions do not change, then we will have failed in making ours a more just and livable society.
And more young people will continue to die on our streets and sidewalks.
We must strive to change a culture in which young blacks have to act differently and be more careful when approached by police or neighborhood watch volunteers.
For black youths, wearing hoodies, running and maybe just being black in the wrong setting often endangers their safety.
That is deplorable and we all - especially those who enjoy white privilege - must take steps to change it.
Other lessons would suggest that neighborhood watch programs while valued must ensure adequate training for participants.
The often murky details of the trial made it clear that Zimmerman apparently went beyond the accepted role of a neighborhood watch volunteer when he ignored police guidance not to approach the teenager.
UNDERLYING RACIAL TENSIONS
The death of Martin and the trial of Zimmerman have produced no shortage of searing, emotional heat. And appropriately so.
But, going forward, they must produce some illuminating light for all of us. The kind of enlightenment that can result when we are forced to do some productive soul-searching about where we are as a society.
