The Florida vigilante who killed the teenager TrayvonMartin is to get his gun back because he has "even more reason" to carry it amid a wave of public anger over his murder acquittal, his lawyer says.
The Kel-Tec PF9 semi-automatic pistol that fired the fatal bullet into the 17-year-old's heart will be handed over to George Zimmerman, 29, who is in hiding after Saturday's not guilty verdict by a jury in Sanford, Florida.
"Even more reason now, isn't there?" said his lead lawyer, Mark O'Mara, when asked if his client would resume carrying the firearm. "A lot more people out there actually hate him, though they shouldn't." 
The Neighbourhood Watch volunteer has been the subject of death threats since the incident in February last year, which came about after he wrongly identified the black hoodiewearing teenager as "suspicious". Mr Zimmerman claims that after he started following Trayvon, the boy lashed out at him, slammed his head on the pavement and told him: "You gonna die tonight." The trial was told that Mr Zimmerman was in reasonable fear for his life and fired in self-defence - justification under Florida law.
"He believes truly in his heart that if he didn't have that weapon that night, he might not be here," said Mr O'Mara.
State prosecutors accused Mr Zimmerman of giving a false account of the fight and argued that he was a "wannabe cop" who acted out of ill-will. Public tensions over the case have pivoted on perceptions that Trayvon was shot because he was black, though the investigation did not find any hint of racism in Mr Zimmerman's past.
Protest rallies have been held in a number of US cities, calling for the Government to file civil rights charges against him. A prayer vigil was held in Sanford last night and demonstrations are being organised around the country on Saturday.
Conversely, there has been vociferous backing from members of the public supporting Mr Zimmerman's legal right to use a weapon in selfdefence.
Given the chance to relive the night all over again, Mr Zimmerman has said that he would do nothing differently.
He wore a bulletproof vest for some of his three-week trial and always wears it when out in public, though he lives incognito at an undisclosed location, believed to be outside Florida. "He has a legitimate fear, a legitimate concern," said Mr O'Mara. "He will never be able to just walk down the street and not worry about who's looking at him or who's walking up behind him."
The comment drew derision from supporters of the dead teenager, who said that walking along a street without being followed was exactly what the teenager should have been able to expect himself.
Jasmine Rand, an attorney for the Martin family, said: "The words I've heard come from O'Mara and from George Zimmerman saying he would kill TrayvonMartin all over again - it's an extraordinary level of arrogance. Those words and those feelings have no place in my personal faith.
"Fear begets violence and violence begets fear. The more people we have carrying guns, the more violence we get."
Richard Mantei, a state attorney in the case, said: "The law allows an awful lot of people to carry guns. It doesn't mean they all should."
Justin Webb, page 18
