It's been a rough couple of days for Angela Corey.
The state attorney for the 4th Judicial Circuit, which covers Duval, Nassau, and Clay counties, has been criticized throughout the country for failure to convict George Zimmerman in 17-year-old TrayvonMartin's death in Sanford. The governor appointed her as a special prosecutor in the case.
A six-member jury found Zimmerman not guilty on counts of second-degree murder and lesser charges Saturday, setting off widespread outrage.
The acquittal is a rare high-profile failure for Corey, and she will struggle with the perceptions this case generated, said former 4th Circuit Public Defender Bill White. 
"She doesn't take criticism well, and there's going to be a lot of second guessing," White said. "But Angela will have her difficulties and she'll have to deal with it."
Corey, a conservative Republican, is in the odd situation of being blasted nationally by right-wing talk show hosts and columnists who say the decision to charge Zimmerman was politically motivated.
"In the hall of shame goes Angela Corey, the prosecutor brought in to get an indictment," wrote conservative Washington Post columnist Jennifer Rubin. "She proceeded to overcharge, grandstand and personify abuse of prosecutorial discretion."
Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz called for Corey to be disbarred, saying she submitted affidavits that bordered on perjury and violated all kinds of rules of the profession.
"She was among the most irresponsible prosecutors I've seen in 50 years of litigating cases," Dershowitz said on Fox News. "And believe me, I've seen good prosecutors, bad prosecutors, but rarely have I seen one as bad as this prosecutor."
Locally, veteran Corey watchers say the acquittal is not the end of her time as a compelling figure.
"This will blow over," said former Mayor John Delaney, who was once Corey's boss at the State Attorney's Office. "[Former Mayor and State Attorney] Ed Austin lost some high-profile cases, but it never damaged his reputation in the long run."
The same will be true of Corey, said Delaney, now president of the University of North Florida.
She will have little time to reflect on the outcome as another highly sensitive trial with racial connotations approaches. A pretrial hearing will occur at 1:30 p.m. Tuesday for Michael David Dunn, 46, who is accused of killing 17-year-old Jordan Davis in a dispute over loud music.
Police said Dunn, who is white, shot into a Dodge Durango with four teens in a dispute about loud music. Only Davis, who is black, was hit.
A trial is tentatively scheduled for September.
Corey did not respond to requests for an interview with the Times-Union. She spoke to First Coast News, the Times-Union's news partner, and rejected suggestions that Zimmerman was overcharged.
"We don't charge based on what the verdict is going to be," Corey said. "We charged what we think we can prove under the law."
COREY'S WEAKNESS
In another interview with ABC News, she defended the decision to charge Zimmerman without going to a grand jury.
"Everything went to trial and everything was public," Corey said. "Shame on those who are bashing us for the sake of getting on TV."
But Michael Hallett, head of UNF's criminal justice department, said this case exposed Corey's weaknesses.
"My only thought is that Angela Corey lost the biggest case of her career by overcharging the suspect," Hallett said. "But that's what she does all the time, and that will end up being her legacy."
He cited the Cristian Fernandez case as another example.
Fernandez was a 12-year-old boy accused of killing his 2-year-old half-brother. Corey sought to try him for first-degree murder as an adult, leading to an international outcry.
He eventually pleaded guilty to manslaughter and received juvenile sanctions. He will be released from juvenile custody in January 2018, when he turns 19 and will be evaluated and treated for any psychological troubles and must also continue his education.
Attorney Hank Coxe, who represented Fernandez, said he couldn't comment on Zimmerman, but his client was "grossly overcharged."
"When overcharging happens, two things result: a loss of credibility with jurors, the judiciary and the community; and unwarranted, serious damage occurs to people," Coxe said.
The Zimmerman prosecution has also focused attention on Marissa Alexander, 32, currently serving a 20-year sentence after having fired what she said was a warning shot to protect herself from her abusive husband.
Alexander cited the Stand Your Ground law to justify firing a shot that prosecutors said endangered her husband and two of her children. But that defense was rejected by the judge.
'SOMETHING WRONG'
U.S. Rep. Corrine Brown compared the two cases Monday and said it was incomprehensible that Alexander is in jail while Zimmerman gets to go free.
"There is something wrong with the system," she said. "The laws have to be revamped."
It's not completely over as civil rights violations and a lawsuit are expected to be pursued next.
Hallett said the prosecution could have won a manslaughter conviction if they'd focused on that in the Zimmerman case, but they fixated on second-degree murder.
Delaney said it's common practice to seek the highest possible charge. He also said it was ridiculous to suggest that Corey and lead prosecutor Bernie de la Rionda didn't know what they were doing when they have been prosecutors in murder cases for years.
"Those are two of the best and most experienced prosecutors in the state," Delaney said.
White, the former public defender, agreed that Zimmerman was overcharged but said that has become common in Florida.
"I don't know why it was a surprise that the state attorney overcharged someone," White said. "I think any defense attorney would tell you that happens all the time."
Times-Union writer David Bauerlein contributed to this article.
Larry Hannan: (904) 359-4470
NEXT UP, CIVIL RIGHTS
The U.S. Department of Justice said it would review the case for possible violations of TrayvonMartin's civil rights.
Attorney General Eric Holder had begun the investigation last year into whether the deadly confrontation between George Zimmerman, 29, and Martin, 17, was motivated by racial profiling, but he stepped aside to let the trial in a Florida court proceed.
But the feds opened the door Sunday to reopening the case.
"Experienced federal prosecutors will determine whether the evidence reveals a prosecutable violation of any of the limited federal criminal civil rights statutes within our jurisdiction and whether federal prosecution is appropriate," the Justice Department said.
Zimmerman, who was in hiding and fearing for his life after the verdict, will also likely face a civil lawsuit brought by Martin's parents.
The Associated Press
