The Zimmerman trial and gun violence  
    Regarding "Law & order: Concern, tears among backs after Zimmerman  acquittal" (Page A1, July 15):  
  No matter if you agree or disagree with the George Zimmerman  verdict, there can be no disagreement over the reason why Trayvon  Martin is dead. Zimmerman had a gun that night, and the state of  Florida allowed him to carry it virtually anywhere despite a  violent history.  
    The Stand Your Ground law, also known as "Shoot First," has created  a slippery slope where you can literally stalk someone, start a  fight and, if you are losing that fight, pull out a gun and shoot  that person and get away with it. Stand Your Ground says you have  no duty to retreat and that you can use lethal force if you  perceive or imagine there to be a threat.   
    Zimmerman was emboldened to get out of that car and confront Martin  because he had a concealed handgun and he knew how the law worked.  We know states that have such laws have had increases in homicide  rates, so why does the National Rifle Association keep promoting  them?  
    Whatever the reason, more needs to be done to end senseless gun  violence in this country. Just since the Newtown, Conn., massacre  last December, at least 119 children and 308 teenagers have been  shot and killed in the United States.  
    This case was about more than racial injustice or the politics of  gun violence. It was about a kid who was just trying to get home.  The death of Martin was a tragedy for all of us. Ask yourself: Are  you doing all that you can to prevent gun violence?  
    You can start by encouraging Governor Christie to sign the  gun-violence prevention bills the Legislature has passed.  
    Robert V. Tessaro  
    Fort Lee  
Questions about gas as vacation season arrives  
    Last week in the Money section, there was an article reporting how  gas prices were falling. There was high production, extra gas in  storage, stable crude prices as well as shipments arriving from  other countries where demand was low. The article also mentioned  demand was down due to more fuel-efficient cars.  
    Since then I have noticed gas prices rising slowly. A more recent  story reports that gas prices are on the rise. Production has been  cut for refinery maintenance and crude oil prices are rising. What  gives? Doesn't this sound like price manipulation?  
    Perhaps it coincides with summer vacation and the fact that more  people are driving. If the oil companies could produce enough  gasoline last month, why can't they do it now?  
    Joseph Sferruzza  
    Wayne  
Test teachers for drug use, too  
    Regarding "More schools turn to student drug testing" (Page A1,  July 8):  
    Becton Regional High School in East Rutherford led the way for  random drug testing back in 1985.  
    I was on the regional Board of Education at that time and was  opposed to the format of the policy proposed. I argued that  teachers, secretaries, custodians and board members should also be  tested. What good is drug testing just the students when others in  the school system needed it just as much?  
    The drug culture was prevalent in the 1970s and 1980s. Today, some  of these former students are leading a new generation of youth with  much more knowledge and experimentation with drugs than our  generation ever knew. If I voted again, even more than ever before,  I would vote yes for random drug testing for all - not just the  students.  
    Richard Vartan  
    East Rutherford
