July 16--LADY JUSTICE is often portrayed as
blindfolded to show the law's
objectivity and impartiality. But the statue carved in stone may be the only entity capable of impartiality in the case of George Zimmerman and Trayvon Martin.
Most know the basics: On a rainy night in February 2012 in a gated community in Sanford, Fla., the two met. Mr. Martin, 17, ended up dead, shot by the neighborhood watch captain. After a six-week delay, Mr. Zimmerman was charged with murder. On Saturday, a jury of six women found him not guilty.
The jury had little choice. To prove second-degree murder, the prosecutor had to show, beyond a reasonable doubt, that Mr. Zimmerman acted with "ill will, hatred, spite, or an evil intent." The prosecutor's improbable argument--that Mr. Zimmerman was an angry vigilante--lacked evidence. Mr. Zimmerman's story remained consistent over time, his wounds fit, a neighbor saw that he was on the ground as Mr. Martin appeared to pummel him, even the lead detective testified (for the prosecution!) that Mr. Zimmerman seemed to be telling the truth.
Reactions to the not-guilty verdict range from angry demonstrations to tacit agreement. Where some saw a racist vigilante, others saw a young thug. Social psychologist Christena Cleveland, pointing out our racial divide, writes, "Blacks often perceive [these incidents] as outrageously unjust, oppressive, critically important, and indicative of deeply-rooted racial injustice in American society." Why? Because many have experienced racial profiling themselves. On the other hand, whites see incidents like this as "isolated events that aren't necessarily related to larger societal issues" and often "the result of blacks engaging in 'race-baiting' or 'playing the race card.'" Why? Because they haven't experienced profiling and because some who have built their careers on crying racism flock to the microphones and cheapen cries for justice. Black or white, our viewpoints tend to be myopic. Those who really long for peace among the races would do well to wear the others' glasses for a time.
The trial is ended but the case is not closed. The Martin family has lost a son and Mr. Zimmerman is no free man. He could face federal civil rights charges (allowable under the "separate sovereigns" doctrine) and/or a wrongful death civil suit from the Martin family. He certainly faces a lifetime of concern for his life. The Old Testament wisely provided cities of refuge as protection against avengers for those who unintentionally killed another. Mr. Zimmerman may wish that were still the case.
Meanwhile, Lady Justice still stands, impassive and silent, her scales rightfully tipped a bit toward the defense, her double-edged sword at the ready, her blindfold secure. Mr. Zimmerman, let us remember, was not on trial for the institutional racism of Sanford, Fla., or the entire nation, however real that may be. He was charged in the death of one young man on a rainy February night. Would that both could now be at peace.
___ (c)2013 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT Information Services
