Staff Writer
bhambright@lnpnews.com
Though there's no clear consensus here on the George Zimmerman verdict, Lancaster County legal experts agree that politics seem to have played an important role in the case.
A criminal court is for facts and evidence, not questions of race and prejudice, legal experts here said.
"I think the entire matter was politically motivated," veteran defense lawyer Barry Goldman said Monday morning. "Criminal cases aren't meant to be political statements." 
A Florida jury acquitted Zimmerman this weekend of murder and manslaughter charges in the death of TrayvonMartin.
Zimmerman, a neighborhood-watch volunteer, shot Martin, an unarmed, black teenager, after the two became engaged in a struggle.
The jury's decision has prompted protests and demonstrations, with some saying the shooting and verdict were racially motivated.
Local professionals call Martin's death tragic, but several said the charges lodged against Zimmerman were not proven beyond a reasonable doubt.
"The burden of proof in criminal cases is high, so this verdict seemed extremely likely in light of the circumstances," District Attorney Craig Stedman said.
Many here say the crux of the case - which they say was not proven in court - rested on whether Zimmerman or Martin escalated the confrontation that led to the shooting.
"I don't think anyone could positively say what started it," said defense attorney Jeff Conrad, a former prosecutor. "It's a critical piece to whether this was self-defense or murder."
Said Goldman: "There had to be a belief on the jury's part that an altercation had occurred and Zimmerman was getting the worst of it."
Prosecutors sought a guilty verdict for second-degree murder, a charge, experts here say, that was likely brought because of the influence of outside pressures.
"I thought from the beginning that the fact that the state's attorney initially decided not to pursue charges, and that homicide charges were only filed in response to political pressure, was a sign that the case was weak," said defense attorney Edwin Pfursich, also a former prosecutor.
Defense attorney Steven Breit said Zimmerman was "overcharged" from the start.
"It was merely a homicide - with a self-defense claim - which prosecutors didn't prove," Breit said on Monday.
Some locals said police and prosecutors might even have allowed media reports to influence them.
"We see a lot of things that we may not like," Conrad said. "But that's not the impetus for charges."
Still, several locals said the verdict doesn't vindicate Zimmerman's behavior.
"You have to remember that "not guilty" does not necessarily mean the jury found that Zimmerman acted perfectly or was 100 perfect innocent," Stedman said, "just that the state could not prove it beyond a reasonable doubt."
Defense attorney Christopher Lyden said prosecutors should have focused on disproving Zimmerman's self-defense claim from the start.
"I thought the prosecution presented a weak case," said Lyden, who has litigated several homicide cases here. "They could have disproved self-defense by showing that Zimmerman provoked the fight, but failed to do so in a convincing way."
Said Goldman: "You can't be the aggressor and benefit from self-defense."
Goldman went on to say that if Zimmerman approached Martin, that doesn't mean Zimmerman surrenders his self-defense rights.
Goldman provided a hypothetical situation: If someone walks to a parking lot and finds someone leaning on their car, he or she has the right to tell that person to get off. If a struggle ensues and the car owner doesn't have a safe route to retreat, he or she is allowed to defend themselves.
"Clearly, each side had a role in that confrontation. When Trayvon is on top, (Zimmerman's) duty to retreat no longer applies," Goldman said. "The fact that (Martin) was unarmed had nothing to do with it. I can be threatened to death by someone's bare hands."
Prosecutors told the six Florida jurors in opening statements that they wanted a murder conviction. Later in the trial, they asked the jury to consider manslaughter.
When Martin was killed on Feb. 26, 2012, prosecutors initially balked at charging Zimmerman.
Norman Wolfinger, the Florida state's attorney, determined that charges were not appropriate. Perhaps giving in to pressure from civil rights groups, Florida's governor appointed a special prosecutor to review the case. She decided to charge Zimmerman with second-degree murder.
"This is a perfect example of how prosecutors need to take politics out of the courtroom," Conrad said. "What drives a charge is evidence."
