July 17--The Owensboro chapter of the NAACP will hold a rally Friday evening for people wanting to express their opinions and feelings over last week's verdict in the TrayvonMartin case in Florida. 
The rally will be at 5:30 p.m. Friday at Fifth and Sycamore streets. The event will feature talks by local ministers.
Martin, 17, was unarmed when he was fatally shot by George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch captain, during an altercation in Sanford, Fla., in February 2012.
Zimmerman reported Martin as suspicious to police but continued to follow Martin, even after 911 dispatchers told him to back off.
Zimmerman fatally shot Martin in some type of altercation.
He claimed self-defense and told police he shot Martin because Martin had slammed him to the ground and was beating him.
On Saturday, a Florida jury found Zimmerman not guilty of charges of second-degree murder and manslaughter.
The goal of Friday's rally is not to vent anger about the verdict, NAACP President Evan Taylor said.
"There are feelings out there that are for and against the Trayvon verdict," Taylor said. "Those feelings are neither right or wrong; they just are."
The ministers who will speak at the rally "will focus on the things we have in common," Taylor said. "We are being responsible in a lot of ways, by providing an opportunity for appropriate venting for the passions that are there, with the hope we can direct" people's emotions in a positive direction, Taylor said.
"Being pissed without purpose is just being pissed," Taylor said.
Sam Byrd, treasurer for the local NAACP chapter, said people with whom he has spoken have strong feelings about the verdict.
"The focus (of the rally) is not on the justice system -- the verdict is in," Byrd said. "What we hope to accomplish is (to show) that we have to believe in justice system, even though it doesn't seem fair.
"You have a right to not agree with (the verdict) and to express your disagreement," Byrd said. "You can protest without destroying property ... A lot of people do not agree and are showing their disagreement. This is the United States of America, and a lot of people fought to have that right disagree in a nondisagreeable way."
Taylor said the idea for the rally came from several phone calls he received on Monday about the verdict. Taylor said people have continued to debate the verdict.
"Last night, one thing that was fervently discussed was that (the belief) that prosecutors lost the case on purpose," Taylor said. "I've heard criticisms of the all-white jury, the judge, the limitations on the evidence.
"There are many white people who disagree with the verdict," Taylor said.
"We are trying to have a productive message that is positive, (rather than) focus on destruction and blame," Taylor said.
James Mayse, 691-7303, jmayse@messenger-inquirer.com
___ (c)2013 the Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Ky.) Visit the Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Ky.) at www.messenger-inquirer.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
