AMERICA'S top justice official pledged yesterday to tackle "the underlying attitudes, mistaken beliefs and stereotypes" behind violence against young people as demands by black leaders grew for George Zimmerman to be charged with federal hate crimes.
 The comments by Eric Holder, the US attorney-general, were his clearest reference to claims that Mr Zimmerman, 29, shot dead 17-year-old TrayvonMartin after racially profiling the unarmed black teenager as a possible criminal. 
 The neighbourhood watch volunteer was acquitted of murder and manslaughter charges on Saturday in a verdict that has provoked protests across the United States.
 Mr Holder, who described Trayvon's killing as "tragic, unnecessary", con-firmed that the Justice Department had re-opened a federal investigation into Mr Zimmerman that had been on hold while the court case played out in Florida.
 Mr Holder's comments seemed to indicate scepticism about Mr Zimmerman's successful self-defence case.
 But legal experts said that his department would face major challenges in any attempt to prove that Mr Zimmerman's actions were based on racial discrimination.
 Mr Holder tacitly acknowledged those difficulties in his speech celebrating the 100th anniversary of a black university sorority in Washington. But his comments also reflected pressure from civil rights leaders on him and President Barack Obama, who are the first African-Americans to hold their positions.
 "We are mindful of the pain felt by our nation surrounding the tragic, unnecessary shooting death of TrayvonMartin," the attorney-general said.
 "I want to assure you that the department will continue to act in a manner that is consistent with the facts and the law. We are determined to meet division and confusion with understanding and compassion - and also with truth.
 "We are resolved to combat violence involving or directed at young people, to prevent future tragedies and to deal with the underlying attitudes, mistaken beliefs and stereotypes that serve as the basis for these too common incidents."
 He spoke as leaders of the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People, the biggest US black rights group, intensified demands for a federal prosecution at a meeting in Orlando, a 30-minute drive from Sanford, where Trayvon was shot dead.
 Al Sharpton, the activist black preacher, said he would head to Sanford and announced plans for protests in 100 cities this weekend to increase pressure on the Justice Department.
 Protesters gathered across the United States on Sunday night to voice their anger in mostly peaceful demonstrations, including large-scale marches in Los Angeles and New York. There were some clashes in Los Angeles, where police said they made several arrests and fired bean bag rounds after coming under attack by rocks and batteries from some protesters.
 In Manhattan, thousands of marchers brought Times Square to a standstill. Jay Carney, Mr Obama's spokesman, said that the president would not be involved in the decision on whether to bring federal charges.
 On Sunday, Mr Obama called for calm as "we ask ourselves how we can prevent future tragedies like this".
 The Justice Department noted the "limited" federal criminal civil rights statutes that were available when it announced a review of the Zimmerman case. There was also a growing consensus yesterday from legal experts who warned that the government would need to show clear-cut racism on the part of Mr Zimmerman before it could proceed - something the criminal trial had failed to establish.
 "From what I've seen this would be a very difficult case to prosecute federally because the government would have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that George Zimmerman acted because of TrayvonMartin's race," Samuel Bagenstos, a former official in the Justice Department's civil rights division, told the Associated Press.
 Civil rights leaders have urged the government to pursue a case in the mould of the successful prosecutions of police officers who were initially acquitted over the infamous beating of Rodney King in Los Angeles in March 1991.
 Meanwhile, Mr Zimmerman has remained in hiding. Mark O'Mara, his lawyer, said that he would be receiving back the pistol with which he shot Trayvon, indicating that death threats meant he required it as protection.
 He also said that his client wanted to go to law school. "He has a real interest in the law," he said. "Prosecuting appropriately - not like what he got - is something he's very interested in."
 The six female jurors who unanimously acquitted Mr Zimmerman are also yet to speak. But a literary agency said that one juror had signed with it to give her version of the trial in a book in which she would say the panel had "no option" but to find the accused not guilty.
