July 17--Some people contend that the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the killing of Trayvon Martin illustrates an inherent injustice of the American legal system -- one that's racially motivated. 
We disagree.
We agree that Martin should still be alive.
And we agree that he probably would be alive, had Zimmerman chosen to stay in his car rather than pursue the teenager that night in February 2012.
But, as the trial testimony and the verdict clearly showed, Zimmerman's bad judgment does not make him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt of murder or manslaughter.
Zimmerman had the right to follow Martin.
Some groups argue that the best solution is to have the federal government take up the case and prosecute Zimmerman for violating Martin's civil rights.
We disagree.
There's no reason to believe federal officials would succeed where the Florida prosecutors failed. It defies logic to think that some mystery eyewitness will suddenly appear, or some evidence be uncovered to prove that Zimmerman is a raving racist.
A potential civil case is a different matter.
Martin's family might well be able to prove Zimmerman's culpability, in part because the standard is lower in civil court -- a preponderance of the evidence rather than beyond a reasonable doubt.
A civil suit is at least a legitimate way to continue this debate.
Marauding the streets of Los Angeles and other cities, however, is not.
Using that decision as an excuse to break windows and steal from businesses, to attack innocent people and to block highways, is more of an insult to Martin's memory than the jury's decision.
People who are truly aggrieved by Zimmerman's acquittal are entitled, of course, to publicly protest.
But they would bolster their credibility if, in addition to airing their beliefs about the verdict, they emphasized that violent and destructive protests serve no legitimate purpose and weaken, rather than strengthen, the protesters' position.
___ (c)2013 the Baker City Herald (Baker City, Ore.) Visit the Baker City Herald (Baker City, Ore.) at www.bakercityherald.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
