 died of a toxic mix of alcohol and drugs, Canadian authorities announced Tuesday.
 An expedited autopsy carried out by the British Columbia Coroners Service showed that the 31-year-old Canadian thesp died from a "mixed drug toxicity, involving heroin and alcohol."
 The 31-year-old 
 star was found dead Saturday alone in a Vancouver hotel room.  
 The findings suggest Monteith, who had waged a long, public battle with drug and alcohol addiction, eventually succumbed to his demons, despite his insistence that he had stayed clean and sober since completing a 30-day stint in rehab in April.
 In 2011, Monteith had revealed details about his substance-abuse problems, telling Parade mag that by age 13 he was skipping class to get drunk and stoned. He said he was fully "out of control" by the time he was 16.
 "Anything and everything, as much as possible," he told Parade. "I had a serious problem."
 Monteith said that although he couldn't change his past, he felt it had helped him mature until he felt he could resist the temptations fame brought.
 "I feel like I'm kind of Hollywood-proof," he said. "Considering everything I've gone through, I feel like I've already been there and done that lifestyle to the nth degree."
Stevie Wonder to boycott Fla. 
The acquittal of 
 on charges he murdered 
 has inspired 
 to boycott Florida and other states with stand-your-ground gun laws. 
 Wonder, 63, admitted his action would not bring Martin back.
 "But," he said, "we can let our voices be heard. And we can vote in our various countries throughout the world for change and equality for everybody. That's what I know we can do."
Where will 'Glee' go? 
Execs at Fox's musical hit 
 are scrambling to make adjustments in the wake of 
's death. The show was to begin shooting its new season in August for a Sept. 19 premiere but may face delays. USA Today suggests the season premiere may be pushed back to late October, after the World Series.
 Other problems involve how to incorporate the actor's death on the show itself, which costars his real-life girlfriend, 
. Will she be asked to mourn him on-camera, months after she began mourning for him in real life?
Chris Brown's legal woes 
, 24, may be back in jail before summer's out.
 The singer, being investigated for a hit-and-run incident in May, had his probation revoked on Monday. Brown will remain free until an Aug. 16 hearing. Brown's lawyer says the other driver in the accident has indicated he does not want to press charges.
Tom Cruise, wild 'n' crazy guy 
Students at the Joanne Baron/D.W. Brown Studio in Santa Monica, Calif., got a huge, heart-stirring - or heart-stopping - surprise Sunday when 
 (
! 
!) showed up at their graduation. 
 The New York Post says Scientology's impossible missionary even delivered what has been described as a stirring speech. He told the would-be stars not to be divas on or off the set.
Robert Downey Jr. is rich 
 almost lost everything to demon rum. He's come back to become the highest-paid actor in Hollywood, according to Forbes, which says he made $75 mil over the past year. 
 ($60 mil) and 
 ($55 mil) aren't far behind.
Jay-Z dominates Spotify 
's 
 had the biggest one-day and first-week download sales in Spotify history. It's had more than 14 million streams in America alone.
Cranston: The demon's in us 
No one's innocent, and every one of us has a demon roaming in a dark, dank, smelly place deep inside our soul. So reveals 
 star 
 in GQ.
 "What happened to Walt is something I related to, if I'm truly honest with myself. I've come to realize that I think everybody is capable of that," Cranston, 57, says, referring to Walter White, the dark, demon-infested drug dealer he plays on the AMC hit.
 Just as a diamond is created when coal is subjected to intense pressure, so the human heart can harden given desperate conditions. Cranston's been there, he confessed. "I had one girlfriend I wanted to kill," he says. GQ says he dated her in the 1980s and she was reportedly a drug addict and stalker. 
 Contact "SideShow" at sideshow@inquirer.com. This column contains information from Inquirer wire services.    
Fergie and Josh Duhamel reveal baby's gender
http://www.philly.com/philly/blogs/entertainment/celebrities_gossip/Fergie-and-Josh-Duhamel-reveal-babys-gender.html
Adam Levine is engaged to a Victoria's Secret model
http://www.philly.com/philly/blogs/entertainment/celebrities_gossip/Adam-Levine-is-engaged.html
Remembering too many Cory Monteiths
http://www.philly.com/philly/blogs/entertainment/television/Remembering-Cory-Monteith.html
