Tuesday July 16, 2013
I was not at all surprised by the verdict in the heartrending TrayvonMartin case. It was, devastatingly, exactly what I'd expected.
Rich Lowry, editor of the conservative National Review, asserted in an op-ed last week that the TrayvonMartin case was never about race. Lowry called the trial of George Zimmerman -- the Sanford, Fl., neighborhood watch volunteer who shot Martin -- "the racial metaphor that failed" and "a tale of the left's desperation to indict contemporary America as a land of rank racism." Although I agree with him that comparing the death of TrayvonMartin to the lynching of Emmett Till -- for supposedly whistling at a white woman in 1950s Mississippi -- is not an entirely apt comparison, it was astonishing that Lowry dismissed the presence of race and the critical importance of context and complexity. What set the tragic events in motion was Zimmerman's belief that Martin -- a black teen -- had no legitimate reason to be in his gated community; his youth, his dress, his class and the color of his skin were all signals to Zimmerman that Martin was someone to fear. 
The trial hung on the jury's interpretation of the struggle that precipitated Martin's death. Who was on top? Who was the aggressor? Whose voice is heard screaming for help on the 911 tape? Race, central to the national discussion since Martin's death, was relegated to the sidelines in the courtroom. As New York Times reporter Lizette Alvarez asserts, "the judge made it clear that statements about race would be sharply limited and the term 'racial profiling' not allowed." This is partly due to Florida's overly generous self-defense laws, which protected Zimmerman even though he precipitated the conflict by tailing the innocent Martin. But racial issues should not be ignored. Zimmerman's four other calls to the police to describe suspicious people in his neighborhood all reported black people. His fear and distrust were certainly shaped within the context of race and class.
New York Times columnist Charles Blow wonders whether we are "acculturated to grant some citizens the right to feel fear while systematically denying that right to others." Zimmerman's attorney pounced on prosecution witness Rachel Jeantel when she recounted that Martin told her he was scared because he was being followed by a "creepy-ass cracker." The defense lawyer suggested that Martin was racial profiling, not Zimmerman. An unarmed, young, black male -- being followed at night by a stranger -- it seems, is not entitled to feel genuine (and it turns out, justified) fear for his life. Even if Martin was the one who initiated the physical altercation, it is certainly true that the two need never have been in close contact. Blow reminds us that "if Zimmerman had stayed in his vehicle and not pursued the teenager, Martin would have made it home for the second half of the NBA All-Star Game."
A 2007 Justice Department study reveals that although African Americans make up just 13 percent of the American population, they are the victims of almost half of all murders in the U.S.; 3 out of 4 of these murders are committed with guns. Dan Eggan of the Washington Post asserts that "encounters with criminals are often more likely to turn deadly for black victims than for victims of other races, in part because black victims are more likely confronted with firearms." Blacks in poor or urban areas were more likely to be victimized than those in affluent areas. Yet, Zimmerman was culturally entitled to his fear but Martin was not.
In the late '90s, I taught English in El Salvador for a summer. On a day trip to an outlying village, I went walking on a trail on the outskirts of town with an American and a Salvadoran friend. We each tucked a few colones in our pockets in case we needed to hand over some cash quickly to any thugs. We were prepared for muggings, but our Salvadoran friend assured us that we'd be safe with her -- especially in broad daylight.
As we strolled along chatting, a young man suddenly emerged from behind a tree, brandishing a pistol and said, "Disculpa." (I'd been mugged before in Manhattan, and I can assure you no one ever said, "Excuse me.") It was an odd moment; it took us several beats to realize he was accompanied by two men with machetes. They waved the machetes threateningly and, although my fear prevented me from quickly translating the Spanish they shouted at us, there was no mistaking their meaning. They grabbed our goods and slipped back into the woods while we ran for our lives.
Afterwards, as we tried to calm our nerves and drive out all the awful images of what could have happened, my American friend and I assessed our losses: some money, our watches, and our feelings of invincibility. But our Salvadoran friend had, by far, lost the most. Her work briefcase was gone; it contained just about every cherished monetary possession, along with keys to her office and home. She was devastated -- truly scared for her safety. Deconstructing the events, we all agreed that our race and our social class had certainly put our Salvadoran friend at much greater risk than if she'd been walking with other Salvadoran friends.
By failing to fully consider the complexities of race, class and gender or the thorny cultural backdrop before heading out on our walk, we had unwittingly made her a target. We should have thought about these things; we were living in a foreign country. Not so for TrayvonMartin. He assumed he'd be safe in his father's own neighborhood.
Rebecca Balint writes about history, education and culture. She welcomes your comments atbbalint37@gmail.com . Read her blog atwww.reformer802.com/speakerscorner .
