Q: Was it really self-defence?
That George Zimmerman shot and killed TrayvonMartin was never in question. What motivated him to do so was. On the night of February 26 last year, Trayvon, 17, was walking through a gated community in Sanford, Florida, when he was spotted by Zimmerman, the neighbourhood watch volunteer. Zimmerman called the police on a |non-emergency line, telling them he had spotted someone on the estate and telling the dispatcher: "F****** punks. These a*******, they always get away." 
Q: Was Trayvon's race important?
This gets to the heart of the matter. Zimmerman's opponents believe he followed Trayvon only because he was |a young black man wearing a hooded top in a predominately white neighbourhood. Zimmerman was ruled to have shot Trayvon in self-defence - cuts and bruises on the back of his head were evidence that the pair had fought, and that was enough for the jury to clear him of second-degree murder.
Q: So is self-defence a plausible explanation?
On recordings of a 911 call made by one of Zimmerman's neighbours as the pair were fighting, a voice can be heard pleading for help. The prosecution claimed this was Trayvon, begging Zimmerman not to shoot him. The defence said the voice on the tape was in fact their client's, that it was Zimmerman in trouble as Trayvon beat him. Neither side was able to prove who was speaking.
Q: What about the witnesses?
The prosecution's case hinged on testimony from Trayvon's friend, Rachel Jeantel, who was on the phone with him not long before he died. She said Trayvon kept complaining that a man was watching him, and that she heard Trayvon tell someone to "get off" before the line went dead. Jeantel, 18, lied about her age when questioned by police, telling detectives that she was a minor because she "didn't want to get involved". This, with her evident annoyance under cross-examination, appears to have been enough to discredit her, although the prosecution said attitudes towards her were influenced by the colour of her skin.
The defence called an expert witness who claimed the angle of the shot that killed Trayvon proved he was on top of Zimmerman, arguing that the hole in his top indicated that it was hanging away from his body, consistent with someone who was above the gun.
Q: And the police?
The police came in for heavy criticism throughout the trial. Sanford police chief Bill Lee allowed Zimmerman to walk free after he shot Trayvon, insisting there was no evidence to suggest he had not been acting in self-defence, and invoking the state's "stand your ground" law, which permits those |in fear for their lives to use deadly force. Zimmerman was eventually arrested six weeks after the shooting. - The Independent
