CAIRO - The most senior U.S. official to visit Egypt since its elected president was ousted said Monday that Washington is committed to helping the Arab country succeed in its "second chance" at democracy, adding this can only happen with the participation of the Muslim Brotherhood.
Deputy Secretary of State William Burns' meetings with Egypt's interim leaders came as thousands of supporters of deposed President Mohammed Morsi held another mass rally to demand his return to office. The protest turned violent as police fired tear gas at pro-Morsi protesters who burned tires, threw rocks and blocked traffic flow on a main roadway running through the heart of the capital. 
Burns insisted that the United States isn't taking sides in deeply polarized Egypt, saying it isn't Washington's policy, "as outsiders, to support particular political personalities and particular parties."
NATION
AG CALLS MARTIN KILLING AN 'UNNECESSARY SHOOTING: Attorney General Eric Holder on Monday called the killing of Trayvon Martin a "tragic, unnecessary shooting," and said the Justice Department will follow "the facts and the law" as it reviews evidence to see whether federal criminal charges are warranted.
In his first comments since the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the Martin case, the attorney general said the 17-year-old's death provides an opportunity for the nation to speak honestly about complicated and emotionally charged issues. 
NEW TINY MOON FOUND ORBITING FARAWAY NEPTUNE: Chalk up one more moon for Neptune.
NASA announced the discovery of Neptune's 14th moon Monday. The Hubble Space Telescope captured the moon as a white dot in photos of Neptune on the outskirts of our solar system.
WAL-MART FACEOFF WITH D.C. FUELS MINIMUM WAGE DEBATE: The bitter standoff between Wal-Mart and Washington, D.C. officials over the city's effort to impose a higher minimum wage on big-box retailers is fueling a wider debate about how far cities should go in trying to raise pay for low-wage workers - and whether larger companies should be required to pay more.
Wal-Mart, the nation's largest private employer, is fuming about a "living wage" bill approved by the D.C. Council that has an unusual twist - it would apply only to certain large retailers, forcing them to pay employees at least $12.50 an hour. That is nearly 50 percent higher than city's minimum wage of $8.25 an hour.
OBAMA, GOP OFFER DIFFERING VISIONS ON IMMIGRATION: President Barack Obama is using his presidential pulpit to press the Republican-controlled House to embrace a path to citizenship for all 11 million people living illegally in the U.S., while a top Republican says only those brought to America as children should be given the highest priority.
With prospects shaky for passing an immigration overhaul in the House, the White House insisted Monday that to garner Obama's signature, any bill must satisfy the president's principles - the path to citizenship chief among them. But Obama is leaving the particulars of how Congress gets there up to lawmakers, wary of strong-arming the process and handling Republicans an excuse to vote no.
           WORLD         
SYRIAN REGIME ATTACKS ON VILLAGES IN NORTH KILL 29: Syrian government troops pounded rebel-held villages around the northern city of Idlib with rockets, artillery and airstrikes, killing at least 29 people, including six children, activists said Monday.
After seizing the momentum in recent months in Syria's civil war, President Bashar Assad's forces are on the offensive against the rebels on several fronts, including in Idlib province along the border with Turkey. Government forces are in firm control of the provincial capital of same name, while dozens of rebel brigades control the countryside.
LEADER OF MEXICO'S ZETAS DRUG CARTEL CAPTURED: Miguel Angel Trevino Morales, the notoriously brutal leader of the feared Zetas drug cartel, has been captured in the first major blow against an organized crime leader by a Mexican administration struggling to drive down persistently high levels of violence, a U.S. federal official said Monday.
Several Mexican media outlets reported that Trevino Morales was captured by Mexican Marines in the border city of Nuevo Laredo, which has long served as the Zetas' base of operations. The U.S. federal official wasn't authorized to speak to the press and asked not to be identified.
FROM WIRE REPORTS
