People who wanted a guilty verdict for George Zimmerman are entitled to peacefully express disappointment.
I'm not really sure what there is to protest regarding that verdict, though, even for people convinced Zimmerman belongs in prison.
Protesting implies jurors did wrong, as if having doubts about guilt is a crime.
Protest made sense, and achieved its aim, back when it was about the decision that Zimmerman would not be charged despite evidence that he had racially profiled and then fatally shot a teenage visitor in Sanford. 
But after those successful protests, a murder charge was filed and it has now been prosecuted vigorously. More evidence came out, too. Some gave limited support to Zimmerman's claim that while he strongly had suspected and followed Trayvon Martin for no valid reason, he did nothing else to provoke an attack.
The unarmed Martin, he said, suddenly charged and knocked him down and pounded his head on the pavement. I suspect Zimmerman omitted part of the sequence of events. But as that was never proven, and Zimmerman had wounds to show that his head was pounded, I find no fault with the jurors.
I mean aside from their failure to have psychic powers that would have told them certainly and exactly what happened before Zimmerman pulled his concealed gun and fired. But many other people do have psychic powers, at least when inspired by political and racial insights, or pro- or anti-gun attitudes or the like.
Those people know for sure that Zimmerman really was innocent, or that he should have been convicted.
Not me. I have doubts I think are reasonable. I think we must now accept the tragic fact that none of us really knows what Zimmerman did or didn't do in the moments before he grappled with and shot that unarmed teenager.
But some anti-verdict protesters are bringing up another Florida case that is very different. I don't see it quite as they do, but I much agree it resulted in flagrant injustice for a black woman who was sentenced to 20 years in prison.
Marissa Alexander was found guilty of aggravated assault with a firearm. The facts may or not justify the verdict, but that's not my complaint.
Alexander had never been arrested, and as a married mother with a master's degree had the trappings of a law-abiding life.
But she and her husband had been quarrelling bitterly.
In fear of him, she says, she went to the garage and came back with a gun to order him to leave. When he refused, she fired warning shots that perhaps could have hurt uninvolved people outside her walls.
They didn't. But jurors decided she had not fired in self-defense, and found her guilty of aggravated assault.
Seems like probation or a short sentence would make sense. No one was hurt or even shot at. But Florida's stupidly inflexible 10-20-life law gave the judge no chance to be reasonable. Alexander got the mandatory 20 years, as is required when shots are fired during the commission of the crime.
That's not evidence of racial bias, or gender bias, or any bias at all, though I do wonder why Alexander's plea offer would have required a three-year sentence. No wonder she rolled the dice on a trial, insisting she did nothing but protect herself.
The plea offer and the verdict are debatable. But even if Alexander went too far, what sane person believes 20 years isn't an extreme injustice when her shots hurt no one and were not intended to?
It would be great if those so publicly adamant that Zimmerman was unjustly prosecuted would now show commitment to equal justice by speaking just as strongly about this ridiculously cruel injustice for Alexander.
Any chance of that at all, I wonder?
Tom Lyons can be contacted at tom.lyons@heraldtribune.com
