An African American man might sit in the White House, but the US still has a fair distance to travel before realising its post-racial dream. That is the message of the George Zimmerman trial. On the night of February 26, 2012, 17-year-old high school student Trayvon Martin was walking back to his father's fiance's home in Sanford, Florida - his temporary residence - from the store when he was spotted by the 28-year-old Hispanic American George Zimmerman, a neighbourhood watch member for the gated community in which they both lived. Zimmerman called the police and reported a suspicious individual, then chose to exit his car and follow Martin on foot - armed with a pistol - despite being advised not to do so by the responder. It ended with a violent encounter between the two and Martin was shot dead. 
The verdict delivered over the weekend - that Zimmerman was not guilty of second-degree murder or manslaughter - is the legally correct one. Given the lack of witnesses and prosecutorial missteps, it was impossible to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Zimmerman was lying when he said that he was assaulted by Martin when trying to return to his car, feared for his life and therefore drew his gun and used it.
However, the moral case to be made against Zimmerman - and about both the state of race relations in the US and the country's out of control gun culture - is far more damning. Zimmerman's irresponsible actions, taking it upon himself to play vigilante, have been justified by his defenders in terms that range from racial profiling, casting Martin as the cliche African American gangster in the making, to outright racist. On the other side of the fence, the sense of persecution has been widespread; any number of African Americans, both prominent personalities and average citizens, have spoken of how being targeted by the police is a way of life for them.
The country's gun culture, one of American society's most divisive issues, is no less problematic. Florida's Stand Your Ground law - Zimmerman had originally intended to use it in his defence - that allows an individual to use deadly force if he feels threatened is dangerously vague and open to subjective interpretation. Two dozen other states have similar laws on the statute books. Combined with widespread ownership of guns, this perverts otherwise admirable aspects of the American character; vigilantism and paranoia of the other masquerading as self-reliance and independence.
The trial may be over, but Martin's death is far from dealt with. Protests have already started in various parts of the country and the US Department of Justice has said that it will look into prosecuting Zimmerman under federal criminal civil rights statutes. However it is dealt with, the Zimmerman case is just an external manifestation of deeper problems that occasion honest dialogue.
