NEIGHBOURHOOD watch volunteer George Zimmerman was cleared yesterday of all charges in the shooting of TrayvonMartin, the unarmed black teenager whose killing unleashed furious debate across the US over racial profiling, self-defence and equal justice. 
Zimmerman, 29, blinked and barely smiled when the verdict was announced. He could have been convicted of second-degree murder or manslaughter.
But the jury of six women, all but one of them white, reached a verdict of not guilty after deliberating for more than 15 hours over the course of two days.
Martin's mother and father were not in the courtroom when the verdict was read; supporters of his family who had gathered outside yelled ``No! No!'' upon learning of the not-guilty verdict.
The teen's father, Tracy, reacted on Twitter: ``Even though I am broken hearted my faith is unshattered I WILL ALWAYS LOVE MY BABY TRAY.''
TrayvonMartin's brother, Jahvaris Fulton, said simply: ``Et tu America?''
The jurors considered nearly three weeks of often wildly conflicting testimony over who was the aggressor on the rainy night the 17-year-old was shot while walking through the gated townhouse community where he was staying and where Zimmerman lived. None of the witnesses who were called had a clear view of the encounter.
Defence attorneys said the case was classic self-defence, claiming Martin knocked Zimmerman down and was slamming the older man's head against the concrete sidewalk when Zimmerman fired his gun.
``We're ecstatic with the results,'' defence attorney Mark O'Mara said after the verdict.
Prosecutors called Zimmerman a liar and portrayed him was a ``wannabe cop'' vigilante who had grown frustrated by break-ins in his neighbourhood committed primarily by young black men. Zimmerman assumed Martin was up to no good and took the law into his own hands, prosecutors said.
As the verdict drew near, police and city leaders in the Orlando suburb of Sanford and other parts of Florida said they were taking precautions against the possibility of mass protests or unrest in the event of an acquittal.
Martin family attorney Benjamin Crump acknowledged the disappointment of TrayvonMartin's supporters, ranking the teen alongside civil rights heroes in the history of the fight for equal justice. But he urged them not to resort to violence.
