Our flight -- from, of all places, Florida -- had just taxied to the gate at Richmond International Airport when my obligatory check of the cellphone announced the George Zimmerman trial verdict.
Social media outrage amassed within minutes, followed by petitions to boycott Florida tourism until it repealed a "stand your ground" law that transforms self-defense into something that seems a lot like shoot-first paranoia.
We were dismayed but hardly surprised. 
It was clear from the bits of trial coverage we consumed during our vacation that the prosecution of Zimmerman was not going well. The deceased seemed to be more on trial than the defendant.
Trayvon Martin and Zimmerman, in the eyes of their defenders and detractors, had become more symbolic than real.
Martin, the unarmed 17-year-old with no criminal record, became the posthumous stand-in for black predators real and imagined. Zimmerman, the 29-year-old neighborhood watch coordinator, became the embodiment of law and order, despite past brushes with the law.
The jury was composed of six women -- five white, one vaguely described as multiethnic. The judge, prosecutors and defense attorneys were white. The prosecution appeared out of its depth when not hamstrung by inarticulate witnesses and a set of Florida self-defense laws weighted in the defendant's favor.
Martin's rainy-night attire, a hoodie, became the proverbial ski mask. A teen of unimposing stature -- 5-foot-11, 158 pounds, according to his autopsy -- was inflated into a fearless aggressor who uttered lines last heard in Hollywood. ("You're going to die tonight" before the shooting and "You got me" afterward.)
Less plausible, apparently, was the notion of a kid truly frightened by his pursuit by a stranger who turned out to be armed and dangerous. One of the most revealing bits of testimony -- Martin describing Zimmerman as a "creepy-ass cracker" -- was parsed for its racist intent instead of its more significant meaning: creepy -- "causing fear or unease."
You keep hoping and praying for change, and it comes in fits and starts. But each generation comes with its hard truth that progress is incremental, struggle is perpetual and old habits die hard.
My nephew and his cousin were profiled in the mid-1990s, while attending a dance at Lloyd C. Bird High School in Chesterfield County. They came at the invitation of my nephew's then-girlfriend, a Bird student.
The boys, Richmond residents and students at Benedictine High, were grilled by a faculty member. What school do you boys go to? Can you name some of your teachers? What school would you attend if you didn't attend Benedictine? Duly assessed as inner-city threats, they were told that a condition of their admission would be their submission to a pat-down search by a Chesterfield police officer.
Such indignities drive home why Martin's death and Zimmerman's acquittal resonated so powerfully among the parents of young black men.
Zimmerman should have stopped following Martin when so instructed by the dispatcher. But somehow, the case became less about the tragic result of his heedless pursuit than about who was on top shortly before he pulled the trigger of his 9 mm handgun.
Oliver Hill Jr., son of the iconic civil rights lawyer, was asked what his father would say about the verdict.
"I think he would have been upset about it, and I think he would be encouraging further scrutiny of some of these kinds of laws," said Hill, a psychology professor at Virginia State University.
Rob Corcoran, national director of the Richmond-based Initiatives of Change USA, lamented that the Zimmerman verdict is "clearly going to feed the widely held assumptions that some people's lives are less valid than others -- that somehow, a person of color's life is of less value."
He'd like to see an honest conversation on the issues surrounding the case. Front and center in such a dialogue should be the heartbreaking vulnerability of young African-American men, a sad reality punctuated by the recent slaying in Jackson Ward of a promising 18-year-old, Jett Higham, who -- not unlike Martin -- was slain in his quest for candy and a drink.
Higham's alleged assailants were promptly arrested. Sanford police did not initially arrest Zimmerman because of Florida's stand-your-ground laws. The wheels of justice would never have turned without the national outcry that led to Zimmerman's arrest a month and a half after he killed Martin.
In a foreshadowing of the bizarre nature of Florida justice, a Jacksonville woman -- stand-your-ground defense notwithstanding -- was sentenced to 20 years in prison Friday for firing a warning shot in an effort to scare off her abusive husband.
In another case,a stand-your-ground law aided and abetted misogyny, facilitating a Texas man's acquittal in the slaying case of a prostitute who refused to have sex with him or return his money. The man's lawyer said the shooting was authorized under a Texas law permitting deadly force to "retrieve stolen property at night," according to the San Antonio Express-News.
"Hopefully out of this we can have some more mature discussions of all these issues," Hill said. "We tend to talk about this in the context of sensationalized trials where everyone's emotions are heightened and everyone feels like the aggrieved party."
But when, exactly, do we get there?
Too often, we seem less like a nation than two parallel universes with inverse realities.
It's hard to be optimistic about the prospects of a dead black teen being a catalyst for change when a classroom of slaughtered 6-year-olds in Newtown, Conn., failed to move the needle. But inaction is not an option.
"At some point, the cliche that 'guns don't kill people, people do' is going to fall apart," said Renee Hill, Oliver's wife and an associate professor of philosophy at VSU.
"I think we're going to come to a tipping point. I just hope that there aren't too many bodies on the ground before we get there."
We've got to resist the racial stereotyping stubbornly ingrained in our national DNA, topple the hegemony of the gun in American life, and dismantle the insidious laws that blur the line between predator and prey.
mwilliams@timesdispatch.com
(804) 649-6815
************
Illustration: Photos
Copyright  2013, The Richmond Times-Dispatch and may not be republished without permission. E-mail library@timesdispatch.com
