U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder called Tuesday for a re-examination of "stand your ground" laws that expand the right to self-defense in the wake of George Zimmerman's acquittal in the shooting death of TrayvonMartin.
"It's time to question laws that senselessly expand the concept of self-defense and sow dangerous conflict in our neighborhoods," Holder told a national convention of the NAACP. "These laws try to fix something that was never broken. There has always been a legal defense for using deadly force if -- and the 'if' is important -- no safe retreat is available."
Florida is one of more than two dozen states that have stand your ground laws. They allow people to defend themselves with lethal force without first attempting to retreat.
Holder also repeated his pledge on Monday to conduct  a thorough investigation into the Feb. 26, 2012, shooting of the 17-year-old.
A Sanford, Fla., jury found Zimmerman, 29, not guilty of second-degree murder and manslaughter. Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, claimed Trayvon had attacked him and he shot the teen in self-defense. State prosecutors said Zimmerman profiled and murdered Trayvon, then lied about the teen initiating the fight.
A federal investigation into the death was opened last year and prosecutors from the Justice Department's civil rights division will review evidence from the FBI and the Florida criminal trial.
NAACP leader Benjamin Jealous has urged the Justice Department to file civil rights charges against Zimmerman. To bring a civil rights case, the department must show evidence that Zimmerman killed the youth because he was African American.
Holder said that after Trayvon's death, he talked to his teen son about how to interact with police and others as a black man. He said his own father had the same talk with him. "I had to do this to protect my boy," Holder said. "We must confront the underlying attitudes, mistaken beliefs, and unfortunate stereotypes that serve too often as the basis for police action and private judgments."
In sharp contrast to that view, Rep. Andy Harris, R-Md., said in a radio interview Tuesday: "We're hung up on this one case, where this one fellow was, in fact, found not guilty by a jury. That's the way the American law system works. Get over it." 
