July 16--STOCKTON -- "No Justice! No Peace!"
Yelling and speaking through bullhorns Monday evening while blocking traffic in downtown Stockton, about 50 men, women and children protested the not-guilty verdict delivered Saturday in the nationally watched trial charging George Zimmerman with the murder of TrayvonMartin.
The protesters, many of them crime victims themselves or family members of people killed by law enforcement, want Stockton's voice to be added to the growing cry for a different outcome. 
Carrying a sign that read, "Who do you call when cops murder?" Dionne Smith Downs, the mother of James Earl Rivera Jr. -- a 16-year-old boy who was shot to death by police while evading capture in July 2010 -- helped organize Monday's protest.
The peaceful demonstrators started in front of Stockton City Hall about 5:30 p.m. and moved out to one of the city's busiest thoroughfares, El Dorado Street, periodically standing for three to four minutes in the crosswalk that connects De Carli Waterfront Plaza with the City Centre Cinemas.
"We are here to challenge our justice system. Trayvon was murdered. He had a right to go to the store. African-Americans are being profiled. Who speaks for us?" asked Smith Downs, who is black.
"We have to come together. We have hardworking people here that have to commute out of town to support their families. Who's watching their children? We want to stop black-on-black crime," she said, listing a number of issues Stockton's poor and working class must deal with on a daily basis.
"We are families here trying to educate Stockton. I want the world to hear that these small towns have a voice. Don't exclude us from the conversation. The only time they put the world spotlight on us is when we declared bankruptcy," Smith Downs said.
Eleven-year-old Isaiah Andrews, wearing a sign on the back of his sweatshirt that read, "I am TrayvonMartin," said he was participating in his first protest.
"When somebody tries to attack you and it's not right, you fight back. I think this is good for Trayvon, because he was murdered," Isaiah said.
Motorist Arron Williamson of Stockton, whose car was stopped by the protesters blocking the street, was at first surprised by people yelling around him and car horns honking in support before he realized what was going on.
"I disagree with the verdict. I believe in justice from God. It's not justice for my kids," Williamson said.
During a 30-minute period, the majority of blocked motorists appeared to support the protesters. Despite acts of civil disobedience, there was no visible police presence at the scene during the early evening.
"Our department balances public safety with the right to assemble and freedom of speech and, as time permitted, officers went by and monitored the lawful gathering and reminded the group that they needed to obey all laws and not go into the street," police spokesman Officer Joe Silva said.
A candlelight vigil to remember Martin and other victims was expected to follow the protest later in the evening.
Contact reporter Joe Goldeen at (209) 546-8278 or jgoldeen@recordnet.com Visit his blog at www.recordnet.com/goldeenblog.
___ (c)2013 The Record (Stockton, Calif.) Visit The Record (Stockton, Calif.) at www.recordnet.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
