The Brattleboro Reformer has many colleagues around the country producing news for our "sister" papers. The Daily DFM is a "top picks" of today's national news. Consider it a collection of "things you should know, today."
1.Why it's no surprise that North Korea was caught in Panama By GlobalPost
A photo tweeted by Panama's President Ricardo Martinelli on July 16, 2013, shows what he says are "undeclared weapons" hidden under the sugar cargo of North Korean container ship ''Chong Chon Gang'' in Colon. Panama has detained the North Korean-flagged ship coming from Cuba as it approached the Panama Canal, Martinelli said. REUTERS/Panamian Presidency/Handout via Reuters (HANDOUT)
SEOUL, South Korea - North Korea, as usual, looks menacing, but can't seem to keep its black ops under wraps. On Wednesday, Cuba came forward as the culprit behind a stash of weapons bound for North Korea. Panamanian authorities uncovered the illicit cargo last week-hidden in a shipment of brown sugar. 
The Cuban foreign ministry claimed the obsolete, Soviet-made weapons, which included two fighter jets and the parts for anti-aircraft missiles, were being sent to Pyongyang for repair. United Nations sanctions prohibit the sales of arms to North Korea.
Whether or not that's a violation, this isn't the first time the pariah state has been caught ferrying weapons, drugs, and other illicit goods around the world.
In fact, when it comes to keeping secrets, the world's most reclusive regime has a terrible track record. Here's a list of other high-profile blunders.Paradise lost in ThailandM
An east European cargo plane full of heavy weapons that originated in North Korea is stopped on the tarmac at Thailand's Bangkok airport. (AFP/Getty Images)
In December 2009, Thai authorities seized a North Korean airplane on a refueling stop in Bangkok. What did they find? Forty tons of weapons that included grenades, rocket launchers, and other lethal cargo-along with all sorts of bizarre-looking tubes and devices used to put together arms.
Police and intelligence officials stayed silent on the cargo's final destination, and it's not clear if they ever came to a firm conclusion. The five-person crew consisted of four people from Kazakhstan and one from Belarus. Many pundits speculated the firearms were headed for Iran, and that the aircraft originally planned to make a refueling stop in Sri Lanka instead of Thailand.
A boneheaded move? Yes. Analysts pointed out that a North Korean airplane would have been smarter to land right next door in Myanmar, home to a friendly military regime with nuclear ties. Thailand is historically an American ally, and upholds UN sanctions against the isolated state.Diplomatic drug lords
A Chinese paramilitary guard stands on duty outside the North Korean embassy in Beijing. (Ed Jones/AFP/Getty Images) A Chinese paramilitary guard stands on duty outside the North Korean embassy in Beijing. (Ed Jones/AFP/Getty Images)
This one goes way back. Ever since the late 1970s, North Korean diplomats have been occasionally caught in countries like Egypt and Norway traveling with illicit drugs and counterfeit money.show more
In March, accusations that North Korean diplomats were peddling narcotics surfaced again in a conservative South Korean newspaper, the Chosun Ilbo, although the allegations could not be verified this time.
Still, Andrei Lankov, a North Korea scholar, says this all began when North Korea became the first communist state to default on its international loans in the late 1970s. The debacle pretty much ended any hope for a state that justified its rule on Stalinist, egalitarian promises.
North Korean embassies lacked the funds to stay afloat, so diplomats had to raise cash on their own. Plus, drugs offered hard currency to the cash-strapped regime. Hashish and cocaine, sadly, were in demand.
Pirate flag
Sacks of powdered cement hide crates containing SCUD missiles on Dec. 9, 2002, on board an unmarked North Korean ship off the coast of Yemen. (Spanish Defense Ministry/Getty Images)
Given the legal and diplomatic risks, it's surprising that North Korea would fly its own flag when transporting weapons from Cuba. Ten years ago, that wouldn't have been the case.
To escape the eyes of the world in the 1990s, the pariah state took advantage of an obscure "flag of convenience": Cambodia. One Pyongyang official partnered with the Cambodian Shipping Corporation, a company that shipped drugs and weapons under a Cambodian flag.
That's no longer possible. In 2002, the Spanish navy found one Cambodian ship to be carrying 15 SCUD missiles underneath bags of cement. The Cambodian dictator, Hun Sen, came under pressure from the United States and South Korea to end ties.
The wily and pragmatic leader saw more value in aligning with Seoul, a country that is now his nation's largest investor. The shipping corporation lost its license and was shut down in 20022.Asiana Airlines' perplexing response to Flight 214 crash By Dan Nakaso - San Jose Mercury News
The remains of the Asiana Airlines Boeing 777 have been and continue to be moved to a remote parking area at the San Francisco International Airport. (Dan Honda/Bay Area News Group)
Airlines' threat to sue a Bay Area TV station over its airing of bogus, racially insensitive names of Asiana's flight crew represents the South Korean airline's latest perplexing response to the crash of Flight 214 at a time when it should be focusing on reassuring a nervous flying public, experts in crisis communications say.
After its Boeing 777 landed short at San Francisco International Airport on July 6, killing three young passengers and injuring 182 others, Asiana has made several communications missteps, according to experts.
That makes it difficult to predict how South Korea's second-largest airline will respond going forward as the National Transportation Safety Board continues to investigate -- and what Asiana will say once the NTSB determines the cause of the crash.
"The name Asiana is now etched in everyone's mind as a crash that fell short of the SFO runway," said Glenn F. Bunting, who runs G.F. Bunting, a San Francisco-based strategic communications company that specializes in crisis management. "There's very little the company can say to change that in the short run. What they can do about it is begin to aggressively attack and repair their reputation problem. The way to do that is not to remain silent."
Asiana officials did not respond to repeated email and telephone requests for comment.
In an era of real-time social media, Asiana's responses have played out on a global stage.show more
SimpliFlying, an airline consulting firm, praised federal investigators and SFO for quick statements on the crash and constant social media updates -- while crash followers grew increasingly frustrated by the muted response from Asiana.
"Unfortunately, Asiana Airlines, with the world's eyes set on it, was slow to respond and was far from satisfying the insatiable need for more information in the hours after the crash," SimpliFlying wrote in its analysis.
Initially, Asiana offered information on its veteran pilot, who was making his first landing in a Boeing 777 at SFO, and his trainer, who also was on his first flight as a trainer. A day after the crash, the company in South Korea apologized to victims and their families.
But three days after the crash, Asiana Chief Executive Yoon Young-doo landed at SFO and could have shown quiet leadership by making a simple statement through a spokesman that he would not speak publicly because he needed to focus on the injured, the survivors, his crew and his customers, said Chuck Byers, who teaches marketing and public relations at Santa Clara University.
Instead, Yoon declined to speak to the South Korean and U.S. reporters who mobbed him at the airport, and no one spoke on his behalf, giving the impressions he had something to hide.
"You put the senior executive in charge in front of the cameras to answer all questions forcibly and candidly," Bunting said. "That portrays confidence and assures the public this was a freak thing and they should have full confidence to fly that airline. Scurrying from cameras and dodging the media and refusing to answer questions -- none of that is a display of confidence or reassures people they're flying a safe airline. It sends a message to the contrary."
The remains of the Asiana Airlines Boeing 777 have been and continue to be moved to a remote parking area at the San Francisco International Airport. (Dan Honda/Bay Area News Group)Jee-Eun Song studies South Korean culture as a lecturer in Asian studies at UC Berkeley and believes Asiana officials may have thought their initial apology to victims and their families in South Korea would cover them in San Francisco in the days following the crash.
But in a global economy monitored by 24/7 social media, Yoon's behavior at SFO was a mistake that goes beyond Asian or Western culture, Byers said.
"If I were their public relations director, I would have a Korean consultant and a North American consultant and a European consultant and an African consultant because the world is getting smaller and smaller and every story is global and every story is local," Byers said. "I'm sure that Asiana has some very good counsel and advice but I've seen this kind of management problem in places other than the East. It's almost like a Western management problem that got translated to the East."
The day after Yoon arrived, six of the flight's 12 flight attendants appeared at a puzzling news conference in which none of them spoke and even their Korean interpreter declined to be identified.
Some hid their faces.
"In Korea," Song said, "to want to remain anonymous is pretty typical."
But why organize a news conference in which the participants appear reluctant to attend?
"It is a head-scratcher," Byers said.
Then this week Asiana's focus, at least in public, turned to an embarrassing news story Friday in which television station KTVU reported bogus and culturally insensitive names for the four pilots on board, such as "Sum Ting Wong" and "Wi Tu Lo." The station has apologized.
Asiana said it plans to sue KTVU but not the NTSB, which has acknowledged a summer intern "acted outside the scope of his authority" when he erroneously confirmed the names of the crew.
If he had been asked whether Asiana should sue anyone over the KTVU report, Bunting would have told them: "It's clear that KTVU was the victim of a prank. (Filing suit) obviously flies in the face of the First Amendment protections we have here. I wonder if this isn't a clash of cultures."
3.Zimmerman prosecutors, self-defense laws draw accusations By Barbara Liston and Chris Francescani, Reuters
People attend a vigil for slain youth Trayvon Martin, as well as to protest the acquittal of George Zimmerman for the shooting death of Martin in Florida last year, in the Harlem area of New York, July 16, 2013. (Carlo Allegri/Reuters)
ORLANDO, Fla./NEW YORK -- Prosecutors in the George Zimmerman trial came under more scrutiny on Tuesday, threatened by a lawsuit from a witness while Attorney General Eric Holder renewed hints the federal government may pick up where the Florida prosecution failed.
Zimmerman, 29, remained in hiding on Tuesday after a jury of six anonymous women on Saturday found him not guilty of second-degree murder and manslaughter, ending a Florida state prosecution of a case that has captivated and polarized the U.S. public on issues of race, gun and self-defense laws.
A former employee at the Florida State Attorney office is preparing a whistleblower lawsuit against Zimmerman's prosecutors after testifying that they failed to turn over evidence he obtained from Martin's cell phone to the defense, his attorney told Reuters.
The shooting in the central Florida town of Sanford on February 26, 2012, prompted street demonstrations last year when police initially declined to arrest Zimmerman, and the verdict provoked renewed marches from critics saying Zimmerman racially profiled Martin as a criminal.
Zimmerman's defense team have complained repeatedly that race was wrongly injected into the case and that Zimmerman acted in self-defense, accusing civil rights leaders of inflaming racial passions with their calls for a federal investigation of Zimmerman on civil rights grounds.
In California, police and civic leaders braced for further unrest while appealing for calm on Tuesday after nearly two dozen protesters in Los Angeles and Oakland were arrested during a second night of civil disturbances sparked by the not-guilty verdict.
One of the six jurors, identified only as juror number B-37, told CNN on Monday she did not think Zimmerman racially profiled Martin and believed Martin attacked Zimmerman first. The entire panel - five white women and one Hispanic woman - believed race played no role in the case, she said.
Juror B-37's interview with CNN, her faced blacked out in silhouette, prompted extreme reactions including death threats on social media.
Holder, the chief U.S. prosecutor and an appointee of President Barack Obama, told the annual convention of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Orlando on Tuesday that his office would continue its investigation of the case, which could possibly lead to federal charges against Zimmerman.
"I," he said emphatically, "am concerned about this case."show more
Holder called for a review of self-defense laws like the one in Florida that appeared to play a role in his acquittal. According to the jury's instructions, Zimmerman had "no duty to retreat and had the right to stand his ground and meet force with force" if he reasonably feared for his life or great bodily harm.
Holder, who is black, also related personal stories about being racially profiled as a young adult and stopped by police.
"Trayvon's death last spring caused me to sit down and have a conversation with my own 15-year-old son, like my dad did with me," Holder said. "This was a father-son tradition I hoped would not need to be handed down."MORE PROTESTS PLANNED
Civil rights leader Al Sharpton called a "Justice for Trayvon Day," planning a further 100 demonstrations in 100 cities on Saturday.
"People from all over the country will gather to show that we are not having a two- or three-day anger fit. This is a social movement for justice," Sharpton told reporters in Washington.
Lead defense lawyer Mark O'Mara on Monday called the prosecution team a disgrace to the legal profession for holding back evidence that should have been promptly shared with the defense team.
Ben Kruidbos, a former director of information technology at State Attorney Angela Corey's Tallahassee-area prosecutor's office, is preparing a whistleblower lawsuit against the prosecutors after testifying that they failed to turn over evidence he obtained from Martin's cellphone while still employed by Corey.
"We will be filing a whistleblower action in (Florida's Fourth Judicial District) Circuit Court," said Kruidbos' attorney Wesley White, himself a former prosecutor who was hired by Corey but resigned in December because he disagreed with her prosecutorial priorities.
Neither Corey nor lead prosecutor Bernie de la Rionda immediately responded to requests for comment on White's charges.
A spokeswoman for Corey referred Reuters to Kruidbos' termination letter, previously made public, in which Corey's office accused him of hacking confidential information from state computers.
Kruidbos testified last month in a pretrial hearing that he found embarrassing photos on Martin's phone that included pictures of a clump of jewelry on a bed, underage nude females, marijuana plants and a hand holding a semiautomatic pistol.
(Additional reporting by Steve Gorman in Los Angeles; Writing by Daniel Trotta; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Prudence Crowther)
4.Spend time on your feet each day to stretch your life By Richard A. Lovett, New Scientist
Michelle Schneider and Dave Dunn use treadmill desks at Evolent, a health-care startup in Arlington, Va. Researchers are trying to determine whether the equipment allows people to burn off glucose that accumulates in the bloodstream. (Lexey Swall/for The Washington Post)
Michael Jensen, a researcher at the Mayo Clinic, is talking on the phone, but his voice is drowned out by what sounds like a vacuum cleaner. "I'm sorry," he says. "I'm on a treadmill."
David Dunstan, an Australian researcher, uses a speakerphone so he can walk around his office at the Baker IDI Heart and Diabetes Institute in Melbourne.
It's not that Jensen and Dunstan are hyperactive. Rather, both are exercise researchers looking into the link between sitting down and premature death. And what they have found is disturbing enough that they both make sure they spend most of the day on their feet.
Jensen explains that he and his colleagues at Mayo, in Rochester, Minn., were studying weight control when they discovered that some people "spontaneously start moving round and don't gain weight" when they have overeaten. These people don't dash to the gym; they just walk more, hop up from the couch to run errands or find other excuses to get onto their feet. "This really got us thinking about this urge to move," Jensen says, "and how important that might be for maintaining good health."
That led them to a field known as "inactivity research," which suggests that inactivity, particularly sitting, can be very bad for your health. It might sound like a statement of the obvious, but the killer point is this: Inactivity is bad for you even if you exercise. Heading to the gym is not a license to spend the rest of the day on your backside.
In 2010, a team led by Alpa Patel of the American Cancer Society in Atlanta analyzed the data from a 14-year study of 123,000 middle-aged adults. When they compared mortality rates of those who spent six hours a day or more sitting and those who reported three or fewer hours - and when they took into account other factors such as diet - they found something surprising: Extra time on the couch was associated with a 34 percent higher mortality rate for women and 17 percent higher for men in the 14 years after they joined the study. It is not clear why there is such a big sex difference.
In another study, a team at the University of Queensland in Australia analyzed data on the television viewing habits of 8,800 Australians. They calculated that each hour of television correlated with 22 minutes off the average life expectancy of an adult older than 25. In other words, people who watch six hours of television a day face the prospect of dying, on average, about five years younger than those who don't watch any.
Many other studies have reached similar conclusions. In a review of all the evidence, Dunstan's team concluded that there was a "persuasive case" that excessive sitting "should now be considered an important stand-alone component of the physical activity and health equation."
- - -
The message is clear: Sitting still for hours at a time might be a health risk regardless of what you do with the rest of your day.show more
Just as you cannot compensate for smoking 20 cigarettes a day by a good run on the weekend, a bout of high-intensity exercise may not cancel out the effect of watching TV for hours on end. Patel's study found that people who spent hours sitting had a higher mortality rate even if they worked out for 45 to 60 minutes a day. The researchers call these people "active couch potatoes."
But it is not just sitting on the couch that worries them. If the harm comes primarily through the inactivity itself - discounting sleep, which brings its own health benefits - the researchers suspect that watching TV, reading a novel or sitting at a desk may be just as harmful.
"The sobering reality," Dunstan says, "is that across a 14- or 15-hour waking day, we're getting 55 to 75 percent sedentary time. Moderate to vigorous activity - what people like to call 'exercise' - occupies just 5 percent or less of people's days."
That's not the lifestyle to which the human body is adapted. "From an evolutionary point of view, we are built to be active," says Audrey Bergouignan, a human physiologist at the University of Colorado at Denver. "Your grandparents were not going to the fitness center. They were active all day."
Much of Bergouignan's research involves bed-rest studies funded by space agencies. They are primarily concerned with the effects of low gravity on astronauts, but the results also apply to earthbound inactivity.
In a typical study, healthy and previously active volunteers are confined to bed for anything from a day to three months. "They develop metabolic features very close to what we observe in obese people and people with Type 2 diabetes," Bergouignan says.
The studies reveal that inactivity produces a complex cascade of metabolic changes. For example, unused muscles not only atrophy but also shift from endurance-type muscle fibers that can burn fat to fast-twitch fibers that rely more strongly on glucose. Inactive muscles also lose mitochondria, the cells' power packs, which can also burn fat. With the muscles relying more on carbohydrates for what little work they are doing, unburned lipids accumulate.
"Your blood is going to become very fatty," Bergouignan says, which could be why sitting has been linked to heart disease.
Other changes involve insulin resistance, a diabetes-like condition in which glucose accumulates in the bloodstream even when the body produces insulin to sequester it. All of this happens very quickly in the astronaut studies. "In three days we have insulin resistance," Bergouignan says.
Similar effects, she adds, occurred in a study in which normally active people were asked to curtail their exercise, in essence spending a few weeks imitating their sedentary friends.
So what can people do to avoid this, other than quitting their desk jobs and taking up nursing, hairdressing, waiting tables or other jobs that require them to be on their feet?
First, it is important to note that exercise still has great benefits: An hour's workout cannot undo hours of sitting, but it is still good for your health. Patel's "active couch potatoes" fared better than people who sat a lot and did not go to the gym.
That's a message exercise advocates don't want to get lost. "We know that if you exercise 40 to 60 minutes a day, you're going to have a health benefit," says Icigo San Millcn, director of the Human Performance Laboratory at the University of Colorado Hospital's Sports Medicine Clinic in Denver.
Dunstan agrees. "We shouldn't throw out the well-documented benefits of vigorous physical activity," he says. Rather, we should think of extensive sitting as a risk factor that should be addressed separately.
But how?
In his latest experiments, Dunstan has been bringing people into his lab so that he and his team can find out precisely what works. In a study published last year, volunteers visited on three separate days. The first visit, they simply sat watching TV. On the other two, they watched TV but stood up three times an hour to spend two minutes on a treadmill. One day they went at an easy pace; on the other, they walked more briskly. On each visit they were given lunch with a sugary drink.
The scientists discovered that short activity breaks reduced the volunteers' blood sugar and insulin spikes after the drink by roughly 25 percent. "That is a good thing," Dunstan says. "We want to avoid those big spikes." Even more interestingly, ambling on the treadmill was just as effective as more energetic walking.
Jensen thinks that what makes these short bouts of activity effective is that they're enough to burn off some of the glucose that has accumulated in your bloodstream. "Your bloodstream isn't that big," he says. "In the whole body it's only five liters." For non-diabetics, that translates to less than 10 grams of glucose in the bloodstream. "If you just burn off four grams - 16 calories - that's a lot of glucose you've taken out of the bloodstream."
It's easy to burn 16 calories simply by pacing around the room. That's also a really good way to clear the mind. "People who get up and move around for five minutes every hour are every bit as productive as people who sit there for hours at a time," Jensen says.
The next step, adds Dunstan, is to determine the best ways to build activity breaks into the day. Is it better to have frequent short breaks? Or less-frequent, longer ones? Are treadmill desks and adjustable-height workstations even better, allowing people to switch from sitting to standing or walking as they work? At home, the questions are similar.
If you are working on the computer, Dunstan suggests, "take a break and do the dishes." If you are watching TV, get up and move around every 20 minutes, or whenever there's a break.
Patel adds that this may actually come as good news to the millions of people who have not been able to get close to the recommended daily exercise levels. "The nice take-home message," she says, "is that anything is better than nothing. Just getting up and moving at all is taking a big step in the right direction."
5.Police surround, arrest N.Y. man on I-91 By DOMENIC POLI / Reformer Staff
A New York man was arrested on Interstate 91 Tuesday afternoon. Witnesses said police surrounded the vehicle with their guns drawn. (Submitted photo)
BRATTLEBORO -- A New York man was taken into custody on Interstate 91 Tuesday after allegedly punching his ex-girlfriend and a man at the Smugglers' Notch Resort.
According to Vermont State Police, Robert Waters, 48, of Massapequa, N.Y., approached his ex-girlfriend, who was in a vehicle with a man as they were getting ready to hike Sterling Pond Trail, shortly before noon. Waters opened the vehicle's passenger side door and punched the male several times in the face and chest area before punching the female multiple times in the head and chest. The victims, who were not identified and do not live in Vermont, managed to lock the vehicle's doors and drive away so they could get help from security officers at the resort.
Waters was seen leaving the area in a black Nissan with a New York registration of SKULL64.
Troopers made contact with a vehicle at 2:10 p.m. near mile-marker 14 of I-91 South. The operator was identified as Waters and was taken into custody. Bail was set at $10,000 and he was lodged at Southern State Correctional Facility in Springfield.
Domenic Poli can be reached at dpoli@reformer.com, or 802-254-2311, ext. 277. You can follow him on Twitter @dpoli_reformer.
