A few hundred people of all ages, races and genders converged on John Hope Franklin Reconciliation Park for a vigil Tuesday night to work through their pain and frustration over the verdict in the TrayvonMartin murder trial. The unarmed 17-year-old African-American was fatally shot by neighborhood watch coordinator George Zimmerman in February 2012 as he was walking through a neighborhood where both Martin's father and Zimmerman lived in Sanford, Fla. A Florida jury acquitted Zimmerman of all charges on Saturday. Danny Williams Jr., a senior at Booker T. Washington High School and president of the school group Men of Power, was one of the last speakers at the Candlelight Vigil for Racial Healing.  
He was 16 when Martin was killed. "These events have made me feel things. I realize perception is reality," said Williams, who is black. "Despite my higher-than-average grade point average and my dreams for the future, I'm still viewed as a possibly violent man. "Zimmerman was never on trial; Trayvon was on trial," he said. "His crime was being a black child at night, and his punishment was death." Felicia Collins Correia, chief executive officer of YWCA Tulsa, which hosted the vigil, said she and other mothers of black sons fear for them every day because they often are viewed as a threat. "Each and every life has value, but in America we don't value the lives of black and brown men," Collins Correia said. Justice Waidner Smith, the YWCA's director of human resources, noted that one in three black men will spend time in prison. "This must end," she said. "Black and brown men are not expendable. Racism must be dismantled." Geoff Woodson, who attended the vigil after learning about it through social media, said holding a vigil such as this is exactly what the park was made for, but he said it's sad that it takes a tragedy for the community to come together. "This is something we should do, anyway," Woodson said. "We still have (Interstate) 244 that divides us. We still have people that don't want to talk about the 1921 (Tulsa) Race Riot. We need to come together. It's the only way healing can take place." Mana Tahaie, director of racial justice for the YWCA, also helped organize the vigil. "Tulsa, we're not a stranger to violence, like a lot of places. We're not unique in having problems with race," Tahaie said, adding that "it's tremendously healing to come together and have a collective experience." By the end of the evening, some of the frustration seemed to change to hope as the group crowded around the "hope" side of the park's 16-foot granite structure depicting scenes from the 1921 Tulsa Race Riot and sang "This Land is Your Land" while waving battery-powered candles in the air. Doc James, who led the crowd in song, said it made him happy to see so many faces of different colors. "It's not about the race of the person; it's about the injustice," James said. "It's not about the color or creed or gender of the person but about justice." Sara Plummer 918-581-8465 a class="ArticleLink" href="mailto:sara.plummer@tulsaworld.com"sara.plummer@tulsaworld.com
SUBHEAD: TrayvonMartin's death gave Tulsans a chance to talk about the value of each human life. 
