A Thomson lawyer was found dead Monday in a parked car in Franklin, N.C.
Samuel H. Atkins Jr. was reported missing by his wife about 11 a.m. Mon-day, McDuffie County Sheriff Logan Marshall said. Marshall said he entered Atkins' name in the national missing persons database and that the results showed the body was found in Franklin. 
Sgt. Don Willis, of the Macon County Sheriff's Office in North Carolina, said Atkins was found in a car on the shoulder of the road with a gunshot wound. Mar-shall said the wound appeared to be self-inflicted. The vehicle had been involved in an accident.
Arena managers get new contract
The Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority has renewed its contract with management company Glo-bal Spectrum and in-house catering and concession company Ovations Food Services.
The contracts were extended five years, according to a news release. The companies have been servicing James Brown Arena and Bell Auditorium since 2008.
Authority Chairman Ced-ric Johnson said the authority was pleased with the work of the companies during their first five years.
"They not only have brought in great entertainment, but they are involved in the community, which is something very important to the Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority," Johnson said.
Photos released of two men in scam
Police have released photos of two people who cheated an Augusta woman out of money and are asking for the public's help to catch them.
According to the Rich-mond County Sheriff's Office, the two men approached the 74-year-old woman at the North Au-gus-ta Wal-Mart on May 20 and asked for help.
They persuaded her that they would give her a large sum of money if she contributed some of her own money to theirs and then prayed over it.
Police said she drove the men to Augusta and withdrew money from two banks and went to her home for an additional $500. Before leaving Wal-Mart, the men said they would leave the money in her vehicle.
After returning to Augusta, she learned she had been deceived.
The men were captured on surveillance video at Wal-Mart.
Anyone with information is asked to contact the sheriff's office at (706) 821-1080.
Couple robbbed at home Sunday night
Two men robbed a couple Sunday night as they returned to their home in the 2900 block of Point West Drive.
According to a news release, the husband and wife were approaching the front door of their home about 11:30 p.m. when two men with guns ran from beside the home.
The woman told police the bandits snatched her purse and ran away. The couple then found their house had been burglarized.
Events to focus on Zimmerman case
A forum to discuss the George Zimmerman trial verdict in Florida will be held at 2 p.m. Saturday at Williams Memorial CME Church, 1630 15th St., church officials said.
A Trayvon Martin After-the-Verdict Stand-In is scheduled for noon at the courthouse on James Brown Boulevard at Walton Way.
- From staff reports
