 US President Barack Obama appealed for calm as thousands of demonstrators from across the country staged protests against a jury's decision to acquit neighbourhood watch volunteer, George Zimmerman, in the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager.
Rallies were largely peaceful as demonstrators voiced their support for 17-year-old TrayvonMartin's family and decried the verdict. Police in Los Angeles said they arrested six people, mostly for failure to disperse, after about 80 protesters gathered in Hollywood on Sunset Boulevard. New York police said at least a dozen people were arrested on disorderly conduct charges during a rally at Times Square.
The slain teen's parents used social media to thank supporters following Saturday's verdict in the Florida murder trial of Zimmerman. 
In a statement issued by the White House, President Obama urged Americans to respect the justice system. "The death of TrayvonMartin was a tragedy. Not just for his family or for any one community, but for America. I know this case has elicited strong passions. And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher," he said. "But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken." "I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from the two parents who lost their young son. And as we do, we should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to widen the circle of compassion and understanding in our own communities. We should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to stem the tide of gun violence that claims too many lives across this country on a daily basis. We should ask ourselves, as individuals and as a society, how we can prevent future tragedies like this. As citizens, that's a job for all of us. That's the way to honour TrayvonMartin."
Advocates want federal civil rights charges against Zimmerman who was acquitted Saturday in Martin's shooting death. Al-Sharpton, a prominent civil rights leader, said on Monday that his organisation would hold vigils and rallies in 100 cities in front of federal buildings.
The Justice Department has said it's considering whether federal prosecutors should file criminal civil rights charges against Zimmerman who has been acquitted in the state case. The department opened an investigation into Martin's death last year, but stepped aside to allow the state prosecution to proceed.
Sunday's demonstrations, held in cities from Florida to Wisconsin, attracted from a few dozen to more than a thousand. In New York City, more than 1,000 people marched into Times Square, zigzagging through Manhattan's streets to avoid police lines. Sign-carrying marchers thronged the busy intersection, chanting "Justice for TrayvonMartin!" as they made their way from downtown Union Square, blocking traffic for more than an hour. In San Francisco and Los Angeles, police dispersed an earlier protest with beanbag rounds.
Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti urged protesters to practise peace. Later, more than 100 officers converged and ordered people to disperse. A handful of people were given citations, mostly for blocking a street or jaywalking.
Earlier, at Manhattan's Middle Collegiate Church, many congregants wore hooded sweatshirts similar to the one Martin was wearing the night he was shot. In Miami, more than 200 people gathered. "You can't justify murder," read one poster. Another read, "Don't worry about more riots. Worry about more Zimmermans." In Philadelphia, about 700 protesters marched through downtown to Liberty Bell, alternating between chanting TrayvonMartin's name and "No justice, no peace!" In Atlanta, about 75 protesters chanted and carried signs near Centennial Olympic Park.
