Wonder boycotts 'stand your ground' states
Stevie Wonder said he won't perform in Florida and other states with a "stand your ground" law. In a video posted on YouTube, the singer, 63, said at a concert in Quebec City, Canada, on Sunday "that until the 'stand your ground' law is abolished in Florida, I will never perform there again."
Wonder added: "Wherever I find that law exists, I will not perform in that state or in that part of the world." The "stand your ground" law allows people to use deadly force if they believe their life is in danger. 
George Zimmerman shot 17-year-old Trayvon Martin during a February 2012 confrontation in Sanford, Fla. Zimmerman said he fired his gun in self-defense. A six-member jury acquitted Zimmerman of second-degree murder and manslaughter charges on Saturday.
Heroin, alcohol killed Monteith o Cory Monteith, the actor and "Glee" star found dead in a hotel room on Saturday, died of an overdose of heroin and alcohol, a British Columbia coroner said Tuesday. Monteith had battled addiction for years.
Nas heads to Harvard o Nas has rapped his way to Harvard University. The Ivy League school announced Tuesday that the rapper, 39, is being honored with the Nasir Jones Hip-Hop Fellowship at its W.E.B. Du Bois Institute. It's a joint venture with Harvard's Hip-Hop Archive. The fellowship will assist students who excel in the arts "in connection with hip-hop."
Punk protesters are back at it o Russian provocateurs Pussy Riot are back in action, releasing a new music video more than a year since three members went to prison for a prank denouncing Vladimir Putin. The video shows band members in trademark bright-colored ski masks and short skirts, cavorting and shrieking atop an oil rig. Backed by hectic guitar and drums , they pour oil on a large photo of state oil giant Rosneft's chairman and liken Putin to an Iranian ayatollah.
One member of the collective, who gave only her stage name of Grelka, said after the video's release Tuesday that "the main message is that Putin has spread the country's wealth among his friends." Three members were sentenced to two years for an anti-Putin "punk prayer" in Moscow's main cathedral. One was later released on probation.
New roles for Lassie o Can Lassie really come home again? A Hollywood studio is hoping so. DreamWorks Animation, creator of the "Shrek" and "Kung Fu Panda" franchises, plans to put the charismatic collie back in the public eye, along with Mr. Peabody and Sherman, Rocky and Bullwinkle, and other decades-old characters. Lassie, who will celebrate her 75th anniversary in December, still is among the world's most famous dogs.
'Not guilty' plea in Deen extortion case o A man from New York has pleaded not guilty to charges he tried to blackmail embattled celebrity cook Paula Deen. Federal court documents show Thomas George Paculis of Newfield, N.Y., appeared in Chatham County Superior Court on Tuesday morning to enter his not guilty plea. An indictment filed July 10 in U.S. District Court in Savannah charges Paculis with trying to extort Deen out of $200,000 in exchange for keeping quiet about allegedly damaging remarks Deen has made in the past. Details on what Deen's alleged remarks were, and the relationship between Paculis and Deen, are unclear.
CELEBRITY BIRTHDAYS
Actor Donald Sutherland is 78. Actress-singer Diahann Carroll is 78. Actress Lucie Arnaz is 62. Actor David Hasselhoff is 61. Singer Regina Belle is 50. Country singer Craig Morgan is 49. Christian singer Susan Ashton is 46. Actor Andre Royo is 45. Actress Bitty Schram is 45. R&B singer JC is 42. Rapper Sole' is 40. Country singer Luke Bryan is 37. Actor Mike Vogel is 34. Actor Tom Cullen is 28. Actor Brando Eaton is 27. Singer Jeremih is 26.
