FOUR JURORS in the TrayvonMartin case distanced themselves Tuesday night from a fellow panelist who showed sympathy for George Zimmerman in a TV interview.
Just moments after CNN aired part two of its interview with the juror known as B37, four of her fellow members on the six-woman jury issued a statement saying, "The opinions of Juror B37, expressed on the Anderson Cooper show, were her own, and not in any way representative of the jurors listed below." 
The four jurors - who signed themselves jurors B51, B76, E6 and E40 - said serving on the jury had been "a highly emotional and physically draining experience."
"The death of a teenager weighed heavily on our hearts, but in the end we did what the law required us to do," they said.
In the interview aired Tuesday night, juror B37 said Trayvon "played a huge role in his death."
The anonymous juror said she believes Zimmerman was "justified in shooting" the 17-year-old high school student.
"I don't think race had anything to do with this trial," she told Cooper.
"I mean just because he was black and George was Spanish or Puerto Rican, I don't think it had anything to do with this trial," she said in a reference to Zimmerman, who is half-Peruvian.
The jury's post-trial conflict played out as U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said he is gunning for "Stand Your Ground" laws.
The nation's top lawman said during a speech at an NAACP convention in Orlando that the law - which featured prominently during Zimmerman's trial - should be reexamined and reformed.
"It's time to question laws that so dangerously expand self-defense and sow dangerous conflict in our neighborhoods," Holder said.
He did not comment on the Justice Department's ongoing investigation into whether Zimmerman's shooting of Trayvon, an unarmed black teen, was motivated by racial bias.
More than 1 million people have signed online petitions calling on the Justice Department to file a civil rights lawsuit against Zimerman.
But Juror B37 said Zimmerman is only guilty of "not using his senses" when he confronted Trayvon.
"I don't think he profiled him as a racial thing," the juror said. "I think he profiled him just as someone in the neighborhood who was suspicious."
Meanwhile a tell-all book by Juror B37 is off the table following an outcry that she was trying to profit from the trial and its controversial conclusion.
"Now that I am returned to my family and to society in general, I have realized that the best direction for me to go is away from writing any sort of book and return instead to my life as it was before I was called to sit on this jury," the juror said in a statement Tuesday.
