Deadly Ramadan this year:
BAGHDAD -- Ramadan this year is shaping up to be the deadliest in Iraq since a bloody insurgency and rampant sectarian killings pushed the country to the edge of civil war in 2007. Suicide attacks, car bombings and other violence have killed at least 169 Iraqis just seven days into the Islamic holy month.
Israel condemns EU move: 
JERUSALEM -- Israeli leaders Tuesday condemned an EU ban on funding to Israeli institutions that operate in occupied territories, but also acknowledged the country's growing isolation over its construction of settlements in the West Bank and east Jerusalem. The EU decision marked a new show of displeasure with Israeli settlements.
Italian minister denies role:
ROME -- Interior Minister Angelino Alfano, Silvio Berlusconi's top political aide, resisted growing calls Tuesday to step down as interior minister over the botched deportation of the wife and 6-year-old daughter of a Kazakh dissident, a flap which has ratcheted up tensions in Italy's fragile coalition government.
Leaker seeks to stay in Russia:
MOSCOW -- National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden on Tuesday submitted a request for temporary asylum in Russia, his lawyer said, claiming he faces persecution from the U.S. government and could face torture or death. Russia is required by law to consider the application within three months, but could do it faster.
Water fills astronauts' helmet:
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -- In one of the most harrowing spacewalks in years, an astronaut had to rush back into the International Space Station on Tuesday after a mysterious water leak inside his helmet robbed him of the ability to speak or hear and could have caused him to choke. Italian Luca Parmitano seemed fine after the dangerous episode.
Obama urges calm after trial:
WASHINGTON -- When President Barack Obama first addressed the death of TrayvonMartin last year, he did so passionately, declaring that if he had a son, he would look like the slain 17-year-old. His powerful and personal commentary marked a rare public reflection on race from the nation's first black president.
Arias trial may be September:
PHOENIX -- A new jury could be impaneled to decide whether Jodi Arias should be sentenced to death or life in prison sometime in late September, a judge said Tuesday. Arias was convicted of first-degree murder May 8 in the stabbing and shooting death of boyfriend Travis Alexander in his suburban Phoenix home.
Asylum requests increasing:
WASHINGTON -- Requests for asylum in the United States have nearly quadrupled in the last five years, mostly due to claims by immigrants coming from El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, according to internal figures from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement obtained by The Associated Press.
Senate steps back from brink:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate stepped away from the brink of a meltdown Tuesday, clearing the way for confirmation of several of President Barack Obama's nominees long blocked by Republicans, agreeing to quick action on unnamed others and finessing a Democratic threat to overturn historic rules that protect minority-party rights.
Sharpton leads Martin rallies:
WASHINGTON -- The Rev. Al Sharpton said Tuesday he will lead a national "Justice for Trayvon" day in 100 cities this weekend to press for federal civil rights charges against George Zimmerman. He was acquittal over the weekend in the shooting death of unarmed teenager TrayvonMartin, touching off protests around the country.
Ohio board rejects clemency:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- A condemned Cleveland killer moved one step closer to execution Tuesday despite a rare plea for mercy from the prosecutor overseeing his case. The Ohio Parole Board voted 6-4 to turn down a request for clemency for death row inmate Billy Slagle, sentenced to die for stabbing a neighbor 17 times almost 30 years ago.
Markey the newest senator:
WASHINGTON -- Massachusetts Democrat Edward Markey on Tuesday became the newest member of the Senate, taking the oath of office after serving 37 years on the other side of the Capitol in the House. Markey, 67, takes the seat that John Kerry won in 1984 and held until he resigned earlier this year to become U.S. secretary of State.
