TRANSPORTATION
Letting cars drive decision
Transportation Authority of Marin's latest efforts to redesign the Greenbrae-Highway 101 corridor continue to undermine the concept of multimodality.
Added northbound lanes will require the demolition of the pedestrian overcrossing, a facility that we sorely need if walking and biking from the Fifer Avenue/Lucky Drive area to the ferry terminal and the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit train and pathway are to be encouraged.
With the near certainty of a parking charge at the ferry terminal, more people will be discovering foot and pedal power as a way to get there for free. 
In addition, the new bike/pedestrian bridge over East Sir Francis Drake Boulevard will soon be built   truly   after many years of design work.
The existing pedestrian overcrossing provides a natural feeder to that facility.
At Wornum Drive and Redwood Highway, TAM plans to build one or more freeway off ramps, turning a simple one-lane pedestrian crossing into an intersection that is complicated and dangerous.
Tamal Vista Boulevard- Wornum is already the intersection from hell.
Families on both sides of the freeway urgently desire safe pedestrian and bicycle access to and from local schools. Yet TAM disregards the care we owe our children.
If our civic leaders truly support multimodality, it's time for them to put their collective feet down and tell TAM to "walk the talk."
Cindy Winter, Greenbrae
TRAILS
Collaboration the best way
In the "debate" over mountain bike use, some opponents are demanding such punitive measures as closing more trails to bikes, limiting times of use, huge fines and even confiscation.
But this kind of take-no-prisoners stance is a lose-lose proposition. The focus should be on finding the irresponsible and cowardly offenders, not using this incident as an excuse to justify a "my way or the highway" response.
Instead, why not form an alliance to offer a reward for apprehension?
My experience over more than 25 years of hiking throughout Marin is similar to that of the July 9 letter writer William Ward: "Almost universally they (bikers) slow down, we share a friendly greeting and everyone continues on their own way."
Riding a horse on a trail is a glorious personal choice; by its very nature, though, it can be risky. I've seen horses become spooked by a fence and hard to control. I hiked many trails that have become hazardous to both two- and four-footed travelers because horse hooves have made them extremely uneven, bumpy and eroded.
With the ever-growing popularity of mountain biking, we need more trails for mountain bikes, not fewer   a need that local agencies have so far ignored.
One solution could be for volunteers from the mountain biking community to construct new, responsible, bike-only trails under the watchful eye of authorities.
Operating from an "us versus them" mentality is not the answer.
I second the July 11 Marin Voice column by Tom Boss and Kurt Kruger: collaboration not altercation, dialogue not diatribe.
Nancy Binzen, Woodacre
TWIN CITIES
Military show welcomed
I could not disagree more with Louis Reimers et al's characterization of the historical military presence at the recent Larkspur-Corte Madera July 4 parade.
The number of vehicles was modest and in keeping with past parades. The community owes Joe Garbarino a debt of gratitude for maintaining this link to our past.
The tanks and troop carriers are the highlight of the parade for both young and old. To see what our fathers and grandfathers used to fight their way across Europe and the Pacific makes us appreciative of their sacrifice. They spew no more exhaust than the antique cars included in the line-up.
I hope the parade organizers completely ignore naysayers. After all, on July 4 we are celebrating an independence that was secured by force of arms.
Michael Sillman, Larkspur
TRAYVONMARTIN
A revealing contrast
Your headline on the George Zimmerman verdict   "Watch captain not guilty"   certainly provides illumination how that jury came to its decision, yet also displays a revealing contrast for many of the rest of us.
In Florida, a jury took some comfort in a "peaceful" community looked over by an armed and zealous nitwit such as Zimmerman.
What a world.
Hobart Bartshire, Fairfax
Shameful verdict
The verdict in the killing of TrayvonMartin dispells the myth of a post-racial America.
We as a people should be ashamed.
I know that I am.
Stephen B. Ward, Sausalito
