Lawmakers of both parties voice doubts about NSA surveillance programs
WASHINGTON -- Lawmakers of both parties expressed deep skepticism Wednesday about the government's bulk collection of Americans' telephone records and threatened not to renew the legislative authority that has been used to sanction a program described as "off the tracks legally."
A congressional backlash appeared to be coalescing around the idea that the administration's interpretation of its powers far exceeds what lawmakers intended. At a hearing of the House Judiciary Committee, lawmakers forcefully pressed officials from the National Security Agency, the Justice Department, the FBI and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence to justify the government's collection and storage of the communications records of vast numbers of Americans. 
"This is unsustainable, it's outrageous and must be stopped immediately," said Rep. John Conyers Jr., D-Mich., the highest-ranking Democrat on the panel.
Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., who sponsored the Patriot Act that ostensibly authorized the collection, warned that the House might not renew Section 215 of the act, a key provision that gives the government its authority.
"You've got to change how you operate 215 . . . or you're not going to have it anymore," Sensenbrenner said.
The sharp and sometimes angry questioning stood in sharp contrast to the tone of hearings on the surveillance programs by congressional intelligence committees in recent weeks. It also came as the government faces a growing number of legal challenges to its collection of "metadata" -- information about the numbers called by Americans, the date and time of the calls, and how long those calls lasted.
Zimmerman juror calls for change in self-defense laws
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -- A member of the jury that found George Zimmerman not guilty in the shooting death of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin called for changes to Florida's self-defense law, which she said gave jurors no option but to acquit the defendant.
The juror's statement adds to pleas from around the country to change the "Stand Your Ground" laws that many states adopted after Florida did so under former Governor Jeb Bush in 2005.
Civil rights leader Jesse Jackson also urged authorities to toss out "Stand Your Ground" laws on Wednesday and highlighted what many see as racial bias in the U.S. justice system by drawing attention to the case of Marissa Alexander.
Alexander, a 32-year-old black woman, got a 20-year sentence for firing a bullet against a wall to scare off her abusive husband. The judge would not allow her to use a "Stand Your Ground" defense and it took the jury just 12 minutes to find her guilty of three counts of aggravated battery.
"In one case, Mr. Zimmerman kills a young man and walks away, free to kill again," Jackson told reporters soon after meeting Alexander in a Florida prison. "Marissa shot no one, hurt no one, and she's in jail for 20 years."
In the Florida capital, Tallahassee, demonstrators occupied a part of the governor's office for the second straight day on Wednesday demanding that the state repeal "Stand Your Ground."
With her identity kept secret, the juror, designated B-37, gave an interview to CNN on Monday that stirred further debate in the case that captivated the U.S. public and triggered lengthy discussions about race, guns and vigilantism.
Russia's Putin puts U.S. ties above Snowden
MOSCOW -- President Vladimir Putin signalled clearly on Wednesday that he did not want a dispute over the fate of former U.S. spy agency contractor Edward Snowden to derail Russia's relations with the United States.
Russia has ruled out extraditing Snowden, wanted by Washington for leaking details of U.S. surveillance programmes, and the U.S. citizen is currently stuck in the transit area of Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport.
Allowing him to stay in Russia even temporarily would upset Washington. Putin does not want to jeopardise a planned Moscow summit with President Barack Obama in September, their first in Russia since he started a new term last year, or cloud the atmosphere at a subsequent G20 summit in St Petersburg.
But a refusal would open Putin to criticism at home that he gave into Moscow's former Cold War enemy, even though he has refused to extradite Snowden to the United States to face espionage charges.
Asked during a visit to the eastern Siberian town of Chita whether the affair would cast a shadow over a U.S.-Russia summit due in September in Moscow, Putin told reporters: "Bilateral relations, in my opinion, are far more important than squabbles about the activities of the secret services."
Putin did not say whether Russia would grant Snowden's temporary asylum request, filed on Tuesday after more than three weeks at Sheremetyevo, but reiterated that he must agree to do nothing to harm the United States.
"We warned Mr Snowden that any action by him that could cause damage to Russian-American relations is unacceptable for us," the former KGB spy said.
From wire service reports
