The fallout from the acquittal of George Zimmerman has resulted in the cancellation of a book deal and a boycott of Florida by Stevie Wonder.
Juror B37 has reversed her decision and will no longer pen a book about the Zimmerman trial, the Wall Street Journal reports. Sharlene Martin of Martin Literary Management LLC released a statement late Monday night on behalf of the juror, who had earlier planned to pursue a book deal.
"I realize it was necessary for our jury to be sequestered in order to protest [sic] our verdict from unfair outside influence, but that isolation shielded me from the depth of pain that exists among the general public over every aspect of this case. The potential book was always intended to be a respectful observation of the trial from my and my husband's perspectives solely and it was to be an observation that our "system" of justice can get so complicated that it creates a conflict with our "spirit" of justice," the statement said. 
Juror B37 was one of the six anonymous jurors who acquitted George Zimmerman of all charges in connection with the shooting death of teenager TrayvonMartin.
"Now that I am returned to my family and to society in general, I have realized that the best direction for me to go is away from writing any sort of book and return instead to my life as it was before I was called to sit on this jury," the statement read.
The partnership between the juror, who was listed during voir dire as "a middle-aged white woman who works for a chiropractor and has many pets," and Ms. Martin began Sunday, according to an earlier statement from Ms. Martin. According to the Orlando Sentinel, information regarding the jurors came out during voir dire but was not in court documents.
When the partnership was first announced, Ms. Martin said in a statement that the book "could open a whole new dialogue about laws that may need to be revised and revamped to suit a 21st century way of life."
Ms. Martin told the Journal via email that the decision to split "was joint."
On Monday night, the anonymous juror went on CNN's "AC360" to talk about the trial and the not guilty verdict.
"I think both were responsible for the situation they had gotten themselves into," she said. "I think they both could have walked away."
Almost immediately after the interview aired, a change.org petition was started, asking Ms. Martin to drop Juror B37. "That very juror, who allowed TrayvonMartin's killer to get away, is writing a book. Please don't allow this person to profit off of the injustice that they've served to the American public. We deserve better. TrayvonMartin's family deserves better," the petition read. 1,127 people had signed the petition by 2 a.m. Tuesday.
As a result of the Martin trial verdict, Stevie Wonder won't be performing in Florida anytime soon, according to the Hollywood Reporter.
The singer said he would not be performing in the Sunshine State until its Stand Your Ground law is "abolished." He also said he would not be performing in any other state that recognizes the law, which some say contributed to Mr. Zimmerman's acquittal in the shooting death of Martin on Feb. 26, 2012.
"I decided today that until the Stand Your Ground law is abolished in Florida, I will never perform there again," Wonder said Sunday while performing in Quebec City. "As a matter of fact, wherever I find that law exists, I will not perform in that state or in that part of the world."
Some have argued that the law played no role in the acquittal. However, The Atlantic's Ta-Nehisi Coates pointed out that it was cited in the jury instructions.
Meanwhile, Mr. Wonder also called for his fans' support of his boycott.
"The truth is that -- for those of you who've lost in the battle for justice, wherever that fits in any part of the world -- we can't bring them back," he said. "What we can do is we can let our voices be heard. And we can vote in our various countries throughout the world for change and equality for everybody. That's what I know we can do."
