A juror who has been vocal since the acquittal of George Zimmerman said Tuesday night in a CNN interview that TrayvonMartin "played a huge role" in his own death. 
"When George confronted him ... he could have walked away and gone home," the woman, identified only as juror B-37, said of the 17-year-old. "He didn't have to do whatever he did and come back and be in a fight."
The six-woman jury on Saturday acquitted Zimmerman, 29, a neighborhood watch volunteer, of second-degree murder and manslaughter in the February 2012 shooting death of Trayvon in Sanford, Fla.
The juror said earlier Tuesday that she dropped plans to write a book about the trial. Her interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper partly aired Monday and continued Tuesday. Her face was not visible.
According to notes from the jury selection process, juror B-37 is a white, middle-aged woman who works as a chiropractor. She is the daughter of an Air Force captain, has two adult children and has been married to an attorney for 20 years.
She said that she and other jurors felt a lot of sympathy for what happened to Trayvon and that she wished she could have given his family "the verdict they wanted."
"I don't want people to think that we didn't think about TrayvonMartin," she said.  "We did."
She said that she and other jurors wanted to convict Zimmerman of something but that there was nothing legally they could do. "I wanted to find him guilty of not using his senses," the juror said. "You can't charge him with anything because he didn't do anything unlawful."
She said she believed the situation got out of control, partly because of what both Zimmerman and Trayvon did. "George got in a little too deep," she said. "But Trayvon got mad and attacked him."
Late Tuesday, four other jurors issued a statement saying juror B-37's opinions "were her own, and not in any way representative" of their views. "The death of a teenager weighed heavily on our hearts but in the end we did what the law required us to do," their statement said. 
