The federal inquiry was started last year shortly after Trayvon Martin was shot by George Zimmerman but was delayed while the Florida criminal trial was under way. 
The U.S. Justice Department has said that it is restarting its investigation into the 2012 shooting death of a black Florida teenager to consider possible federal hate crime charges against George Zimmerman, the neighborhood watch volunteer who was acquitted by a jury over the weekend.
The federal inquiry, which was started shortly after the shooting last year of TrayvonMartin, but had been delayed while the state criminal trial in Florida was under way, was being restarted after civil rights leaders called on the Justice Department to re-examine the case. The leaders said Sunday that they remained convinced that the shooting had a racial element.
''There is a pattern of George Zimmerman making dozens of calls to 911 over several years, frequently about young men of color,'' Benjamin T. Jealous, the president and chief executive of the N.A.A.C.P., said in an interview Sunday. Mr. Zimmerman and his family have defended the shooting as an act of self-defense. 
Mr. Zimmerman, 29, had faced charges of second-degree murder and manslaughter - and the prospect of decades in jail, if convicted - stemming from his fatal shooting of Mr. Martin, 17, on the night of Feb. 26, 2012, in Sanford, a modest Central Florida city. Late Saturday, he was acquitted of all charges by the jurors, all of them women and none black, who had deliberated more than 16 hours over two days.
In a statement Sunday, the Justice Department said that now that the state criminal trial was over, it would continue its examination of the circumstances in the shooting. ''Experienced federal prosecutors will determine whether the evidence reveals a prosecutable violation of any of the limited federal criminal civil rights statutes within our jurisdiction,'' the statement said.
The department sets a high bar for such a prosecution. Three former Justice Department officials who once worked in the department's Civil Rights Division, which is handling the inquiry, said Sunday that the federal government must clear a series of difficult legal hurdles before it could move to indict Mr. Zimmerman.
''It is not enough if it's just a fight that escalated,'' said Samuel Bagenstos, who until 2011 served as the principal deputy assistant attorney general in the division. ''The government has to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the defendant acted willfully with a seriously culpable state of mind'' to violate Mr. Martin's civil rights.
Criminal charges under federal hate crime law have increased significantly during the Obama administration. Between 2009 and 2012, the Justice Department prosecuted 29 percent more such cases than in the previous three fiscal years. Last month in Seattle, for example, Jamie Larson, 49, pleaded guilty to federal hate crime charges that he beat a cabdriver, who was from India and was wearing a turban.
The increase is in part because of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, enacted in 2009, which removed a requirement that a victim had to be engaged in a federally protected activity, like voting or going to school.
But the Obama administration's Justice Department has been cautious in its use of the expanded law. In 2010, for example, it turned down calls by civil rights leaders to file charges in New York City in the 2006 death of Sean Bell, a 23-year-old black man who was fatally shot by police officers outside a Queens club just hours before he was to be married.
''There aren't that many of these cases, and it is not because the government is not being vigilant,'' said William R. Yeomans, a former chief of staff in the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division. ''It is very difficult to establish a defendant's state of mind.''
On Sunday, the Florida jury's verdict reverberated from church pulpits to street protests across the United States in a renewed debate about race, crime and the U.S. justice system. Lawmakers, members of the clergy and demonstrators who assembled in parks and squares on a hot July day described Mr. Zimmerman's acquittal as evidence of a persistent racism that afflicts the nation five years after it elected its first African-American president.
''Trayvon Benjamin Martin is dead because he and other black boys and men like him are seen not as a person but a problem,'' the Rev. Dr. Raphael G. Warnock, the senior pastor at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, told a congregation once led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Dr. Warnock noted that the verdict came less than a month after the Supreme Court voted 5 to 4 to void a provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. ''The last few weeks have been pivotal to the consciousness of black America,'' he said in an interview after services. ''Black men have been stigmatized.''
President Barack Obama, calling Mr. Martin's death a tragedy, urged Americans Sunday to respect the rule of law.
''The death of TrayvonMartin was a tragedy,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement. ''Not just for his family, or for any one community, but for America. I know this case has elicited strong passions. And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher. But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken.''
The reactions to the verdict suggested that racial relations remained polarized in many parts of this country, particularly regarding the justice system and the police.
''I pretty well knew that Mr. Zimmerman was going to be let free, because if justice was blind of colors, why wasn't there any minorities on the jury?'' said Willie Pettus, 57, of Richmond, Virginia.
Maxine McCrey, attending services at Abyssinian Baptist Church in New York, said the verdict was a reminder of the failure of the justice system. ''There's no justice for black people,'' she said. ''Profiling and targeting our black men has not stopped.''
Ms. McCrey dabbed at her eyes as she recalled the moment she learned of the verdict. ''I cried,'' she said. ''And I am still crying.''
Many blacks, and some whites, questioned whether Mr. Zimmerman, who is part Hispanic, would have been acquitted if he were black and Mr. Martin were white.
''He would have been in jail already,'' Leona Ellzy, 18, said as she visited a monument to Mr. Martin in Sanford. ''The black man would have been in prison for killing a white child.''
Jeff Fard, a community organizer in a black neighborhood in Denver, Colorado, said Mr. Martin would be alive today if he had not been black. ''If the roles were reversed, Trayvon would have been instantly arrested and, by now, convicted,'' he said. ''Those are realities that we have to accept.''
But even race's role in the case became a matter of a debate. One of Mr. Zimmerman's lawyers, Mark O'Mara, said he also thought the outcome would have been different if his client were black - but for reasons entirely different from those suggested by people like Mr. Fard.
''He never would have been charged with a crime,'' Mr. O'Mara said.
''This became a focus for a civil rights event, which again is a wonderful event to have,'' he said. ''But they decided that George Zimmerman would be the person who they were to blame and sort of use as the creation of a civil rights violation, none of which was borne out by the facts. The facts that night were not borne out that he acted in a racial way.''
In Atlanta, Tommy Keith, 62, a white retired Cadillac salesman, rejected any contention that this was anything more than a failed murder case presented by the state. ''The state's got to prove their case, O.K.?'' he said. ''They didn't.''
Within moments of the announcement of the verdict Saturday night and continuing through Sunday, demonstrations, some planned and some impromptu, arose in neighborhoods in Chicago, Los Angeles, Washington, New York and Atlanta. There were no reports of serious violence or arrests as Sunday went on, a contrast with the riots that swept Los Angeles after the verdict in another race-tinged case, the 1992 acquittal of white Los Angeles police officers in the beating of Rodney King, a black construction worker.
As dusk fell in New York, a modest rally that had begun hours earlier in Union Square grew to a crowd of thousands that snaked through Midtown Manhattan toward Times Square in an unplanned parade. Onlookers used cellphones to snap pictures of the chanting protesters and their escort by dozens of police cars and scores of officers on foot. Hundreds of bystanders left the sidewalks to join the peaceful demonstration, which brought traffic to a standstill.
In downtown Oakland, California, dozens of protesters filled the streets to denounce the verdict shortly after it was announced. Some of the protesters set fire to trash cans, broke the windows of businesses and damaged police patrol cars.
About 40 people in Atlanta, carrying sodas and Skittles to underscore the errand to a store that Mr. Martin was completing when he was shot, marched to Woodruff Park on Saturday night. In Washington, about 250 marchers protested the verdict late Saturday and early Sunday as police cruisers trailed them.
A few hundred protesters gathered at a rally in downtown Chicago on Sunday, some wearing signs showing Mr. Martin wearing a hoodie.
''I'm heartbroken, but it didn't surprise me,'' said Velma Henderson, 65, a retired state employee who lived in a southern suburb of Chicago. ''The system is screwed. It's a racist system, and it's not designed for African-Americans.''
A similar sense of resignation flowed through St. Sabina, a Catholic church on the South Side of Chicago, where many parishioners are black. They gathered in the sanctuary holding signs that read, ''TrayvonMartin murdered again by injustice system.''
''Like many of you, I'm angered, I'm disappointed, I'm disgusted,'' said the Rev. Michael Pfleger, who is white, to his congregation at St. Sabina. ''And yet like many of you, I'm not shocked. 'Cause unfortunately, this is the America that we know all too well. Yesterday, we watched the justice system fail miserably again.''
As blacks and whites struggled with the racial implications of the debate, many called for prayer and peace and urged that there be no escalation of violence.
''My heart is heavy,'' said Milton Felton, a cousin of Mr. Martin's, outside Antioch Missionary Baptist Church in Miami Gardens, Florida, where members of the family had gathered. ''But that's our justice system. Let's be peaceful about it.''
At Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, New York, parishioners seemed stricken by what many described as a reminder of how far the nation still needed to go to resolve its racial differences. ''I felt he was going to get off,'' said Helen Corley, attending services there. ''He knew he could do it and get away with it.''
''It crushed my spirit,'' she said.
