ORLANDO --For Eric Holder, the country's first black attorney general, TrayvonMartin's death and George Zimmerman's acquittal of second-degree murder and manslaughter are personal.
The shooting of the unarmed 17-year-old last year prompted the attorney general to have a conversation with his 15-year-old son that Holder's father had with him years before, about how young black men should interact with the police.
"This was a father-son tradition I hoped would not need to be handed down. But as a father who loves his son and who is more knowing of the ways of the world, I had to do this to protect my boy," Holder told a rapt audience at the NAACP national convention in Orlando Tuesday evening. 
The Zimmerman verdict was delivered late Saturday night at the Seminole County courthouse, less than 30 miles from the convention site and just hours after it began.
Holder emphasized his department's pursuit of possible federal hate crime charges against the neighborhood watch volunteer and castigated "senseless" "stand your ground" laws that one juror in a post-trial TV appearance said contributed to the acquittal.
As Holder delivered his Orlando remarks, more than 40 demonstrators in Tallahassee staged a sit-in at Gov. Rick Scott's office. They demanded a special session on stand your ground and other laws they say contributed to Martin's death.
"It's time to question laws that senselessly expand the concept of self-defense and sow dangerous conflict in our neighborhoods. These laws try to fix something that was never broken," Holder said, receiving a standing ovation.
The Justice Department began an investigation into possible criminal civil rights violations after the shooting last year but put the review on hold until the trial was completed. That review is again underway, Holder said.
"I want to assure you that the Department of Justice will continue to act in a manner that is consistent with the facts and the law. We will not be afraid. We are committed to doing everything possible to ensure that in every case, in every circumstance and in every community justice must be done," he said, again eliciting loud applause.
1 million signatures
The NAACP received more than 1 million online signatures for a petition demanding that Holder's department charge Zimmerman with a federal civil rights crime, an issue that has become a focal point of the convention, which ends today.
The key to charging Zimmerman lies in whether evidence exists that he was motivated by racial animosity to kill Martin. And while Martin's family has said the teen was racially profiled, no evidence surfaced during the state trial that Zimmerman had a racial bias.
Zimmerman, 29, was acquitted of second-degree murder and manslaughter charges in the February 2012 death after claiming he fired his weapon in self-defense only after Martin attacked him. No evidence surfaced in the trial that Zimmerman had a racial bias, and his friends and family have repeatedly denied he harbored animosity toward blacks. Florida did not use its hate crime laws in prosecuting Zimmerman.
Zimmerman could get life in prison if charged and convicted under federal hate crime laws. But many legal analysts doubt a federal case would succeed. A federal jury would have to find beyond a reasonable doubt that Zimmerman had a racial motive when he began following Martin and that he did not act in self-defense when he fired his gun.
NAACP President Benjamin Jealous believes there is enough evidence to prove that race was a motive. He pointed to testimony of Zimmerman's cousin who said she believed race was a factor, reports from black youths in the townhouse community who believed Zimmerman targeted and harassed them because they are black, and a history of calls he made to the police, including on the night he shot Martin last year.
"They really need to dig into the fact that this wasn't just criminal profiling," Jealous told reporters. "There's reason to believe that this was racial profiling, that he so feared young black men, perhaps because of the context of what was happening in his community, that he mistook somebody's color for grounds for suspicion."
The not guilty verdict is again shining a spotlight on stand your ground laws, which came under intense scrutiny immediately after Martin's death.
The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights launched an investigation last year into whether the laws are biased. In a statement issued Tuesday, Commissioner Michael Yaki blamed the law. The commission will "pursue this investigation wherever it leads," Yaki wrote.
Florida's first-in-the-nation stand your ground law, passed in 2005, became a model for other states. The law allows people who feel threatened to use deadly force and removed the "duty to retreat" in public confrontations. The law also provides immunity from prosecution, something Zimmerman's lawyers did not use.
Supporters of the law say it did not have an impact on the Zimmerman case, but the stand your ground law did come into play because it changed the justification about the use of deadly force and what juries are told.
"If George Zimmerman was not engaged in an unlawful activity and was attacked in any place where he had a right to be, he had no duty to retreat and had the right to stand his ground and meet force with force, including deadly force if he reasonably believed that it was necessary to do so to prevent death or great bodily harm to himself or another or to prevent the commission of a forcible felony," read the instructions given to the six-woman jury that acquitted Zimmerman.
Under the old law, defendants who were wrongfully attacked could not justify a deadly use of force if they could have avoided the confrontation.
Tuesday evening, about 40 students moved out of the governor's office and prepared to camp out inside the Capitol, waiting for Scott to return from New York.
Scott's office issued a statement saying "his heart goes out to TrayvonMartin's family and all those affected by his death." But he remained steadfast about stand your ground, citing a task force he'd appointed. "This task force listened to Floridians across the state and heard their viewpoints and expert opinions on this law. The task force recommended that the law should not be overturned, and Gov. Scott agrees," Scott's spokeswoman Melissa Sellers wrote.
The Associated Press contributed to this story. dkam@pbpost.com Twitter: @TheDaraKam
