More than 5000 African-American men were shot and murdered in the United States last year. A similar number have been murdered almost every year for decades. Yet few if any demonstrations against this shocking waste of life have been seen on the streets of America. It was different this week, when street demonstrations and public outrage flared across the country after a jury found George Zimmerman not guilty of either murder or manslaughter for shooting and killing 17-year-old TrayvonMartin. Context, it appears, is everything.
Most Americans expected a not-guilty verdict in this trial, which has attracted enormous media coverage for months. A national poll taken last year found that only 24 per cent of respondents believed Zimmerman was guilty. Even fewer, 20 per cent, thought he would be convicted. So it has turned out. The outrage felt by many is driven by a combination of facts: Zimmerman is Hispanic and his victim was African-American, unarmed, had no criminal record and was walking towards the home where he was staying. Even though the evidence at trial established that Zimmerman did not set out to shoot Martin and did so only after they had been involved in a fight, the circumstances have proved combustible. The main reason is simple - race. 
Contributing to the outrage is Florida's "justifiable use of force" statute, which states, inter alia: "A person who is not engaged in an unlawful activity and who is attacked in any other place where he or she has a right to be has no duty to retreat and has the right to stand his or her ground and meet force with force, including deadly force if he or she reasonably believes it is necessary to do so to prevent death or great bodily harm to himself or herself or another or to prevent the commission of a forcible felony."
The existence of this law gave the jury the discretion to treat Zimmerman's actions as legal if it concluded he believed he was in danger of suffering great bodily harm. In theory, with the number of guns in private hands rising, and numerous state laws giving people the right to shoot without having to retreat from harm, there should be an increase in fatal shootings. Mercifully, the trend is in the opposite direction, down, not up.
We should be thankful that such cases are rare, given that about 300 million guns are in private hands in America, the largest civilian arsenal in history. Given, too, that the US is a mosaic of different races, the amount of inter-racial homicide is very low in the context of an armed and multiracial nation. The trend in the nation's murder rate is down and has been trending down for a decade. In 2011, the homicide rate was 4.7 per 100,000 population, the lowest in 50 years.
This, too, requires context. The per capita homicide rate in the US is almost five times greater than the rate in Australia, and the rate of homicides involving firearms is exponentially higher - about 10,000 a year in the US compared with about 30 in Australia. The reason for the wild divergence in per capita homicide rates involving firearms - 3.2 per 100,000 people in the US compared with just 0.1 in Australia - is America's gun culture.
Gun advocates in the US are arguing that the decline in the homicide rate combined with the rise in gun ownership proves that an armed population can be a safer population. But two-thirds of murders in the US involve firearms whereas they are involved in only a small fraction of homicides in the rest of the developed world. If Americans were not so heavily armed, and American culture not so drenched in an ethos of gun justice, tens of thousands of young men, especially African-American men, would not have their lives cut short and incidents like the death of TrayvonMartin would be more rare and less justifiable under the law.
America is in the middle of a race debate and a debate over self-defence, but these are symptoms of a deeper social dysfunction, an ingrained culture of bearing arms when confronting trouble.
