Zimmerman not innocent
 It was a miscarriage of justice that the jury didn't convict George Zimmerman of at least manslaughter ("Zimmerman is acquitted in killing of Florida teen," Sunday). Part of the problem was the way the Florida law is written. But still it was the wrong verdict. TrayvonMartin is dead and Zimmerman doesn't have to spend a day in jail. It's not at all right or just.
 The jury discounted or ignored several inconsistencies in the story that Zimmerman told about the event. If Zimmerman was being held down by Martin, how could Zimmerman have had the ability to reach around to his back, pull out the gun, disengage the safety, and, finally, shoot Martin? If the safety was disengaged before the scuffle, then that means to me that Zimmerman intended to kill Trayvon.
 The day of the murder was a sad, sad day, as was the day of Zimmerman's acquittal. 
 Andrew C. Mills, Lower Gwynedd
 Wrong to try Zimmerman
 While the death of a young man is tragic, the only positive outcome of George Zimmerman's trial is that justice was done. This case should never have come to court. The original Sanford, Fla., chief of police refused to arrest Zimmerman, and for that lost his job. The whole affair then changed from seeking justice to bowing to political pressure.
 The prosecution tried a cocktail of charges. Couple this with the prosecutors' histrionics and blatant attempts to inflame the jury - all but one of whom were mothers - by repeatedly referring to 17-year-old Martin as a "child," and you could see that they knew they had no real case.
 Fortunately, the jury based its verdict on the evidence and the law. Martin, who was taller and had an athletic build, though he weighed less than Zimmerman, could have disclosed that he lived in one of the houses in the complex. That would have been the end of the matter. Instead, clearly he intended to teach this "cracker" a lesson. As the jury concluded, Zimmerman acted within the law by using deadly force only when he reasonably felt that he was about to be killed or seriously injured.
 Nick O'Dell, Phoenixville, nickodell16@yahoo.com
 Should fear young black men
 Our sons are in far more danger from their black brothers than they are from a white Latino vigilante. The vast majority of all blacks murdered are killed by black assailants. Chicago had several shootings of black residents on the Fourth of July by black attackers. Tell me, are the press and Al Sharpton there yet?
 In Philadelphia, every year, hundreds of young black men murder hundreds of young black men. It is important to be afraid of young black men in Philadelphia. Before spending so much energy on the afraid-of-black-people syndrome, we must solve the blacks-killing-blacks problem. Surely, that will produce the greatest gain and save the most lives.
 Maynard Honesty, Chesterbrook
 Zimmerman was doing his job
 I could not help but notice that your editorial Monday ("Zimmerman's acquittal shouldn't lead to riches") said George Zimmerman was "looking for trouble." Isn't anyone involved in a neighborhood watch program looking to prevent trouble?
 Tim Byrne, Wayne
 Verdict came out of the 1950s
 First, the Voting Rights Act is dismantled, and now this. It feels as if we've gone back to the 1950s, when black people had to fight for the right to vote and white men who murdered an innocent black child for whistling at a white woman were found not guilty.
 The TrayvonMartin case is about so many things. It's about laws that let anyone carry guns. It's about a Florida law that let's people shoot to kill if they feel threatened. It's about a court that was allowed to use that law to exonerate a man who was in the safety of his car, got out, stalked an innocent black child, and then claimed that he felt threatened. Needless to say, it's about racial profiling.
 In a country where there's no money to educate children in cities like Philadelphia and Chicago, but plenty of money to build prisons where the majority of the inmates are young black and Latino men who did not commit violent crimes and never had the chance for a solid education, the justice system cannot convict a man who murdered an innocent child.
 Sixty years after Emmett Till, this is where we are. But Emmett Till's murder mobilized people all over the country, and helped it to change some laws and face some ugly truths about itself. Let's hope that we as citizens can work toward making that happen again.
 Karen Falcon, Philadelphia, jubilleschool@verizon.net
 Real problem is jury trials
 My comments on the George Zimmerman case would be the same regardless of the verdict. Why is our jury system better than, for example, a panel of professional judges (perhaps three)? Chances are that the jurors know very little about the relevant law. Yes, the judge instructs them, but the law under review is often very complicated.
 Also, jurors are not necessarily used to the pressure involved in some of these cases, and that stress may influence their judgment. The lawyers play to the emotions of the jurors. The game goes to the higher-priced lawyers, who know how to manipulate an inexperienced jury regardless of guilt or innocence.
 I fail to see any advantage in being judged by a jury of my peers. If I'm innocent of the charge, I would much rather take my chances with a panel of professionals.
 Richard McFadden Sr., Plymouth Meeting
 Guilty of walking while black
 In my day, if you had a fist fight, you took your licks and walked away. Now, if someone gets the upper hand, you shoot him and tell the law you were afraid the guy was going to beat you to death. So what if you provoked the whole situation by confronting a kid who was walking home and minding his own business?
TrayvonMartin was "walking while black," wearing a hoodie, in the rain, through a white neighborhood already terrified by other black men. When in doubt, shoot first and ask questions later.
 George Zimmerman didn't stand his ground. He stood on Martin's ground and provoked the confrontation. Neither all the slickest lawyers in the world or the dumbest sitting juries will ever convince me that this innocent kid should be six feet under.
 Anthony Frascino, Swedesboro
 Sidewalks are deadly weapons?
 As if I ever really felt safe from any gun-toting yahoo who might choose to harass me, the acquittal of George Zimmerman, and the absurd arguments used to support that result, will only make me more paranoid. Nobody can feel safe knowing that he may be considered dangerous just for walking on a public sidewalk, which is now considered a deadly weapon that is worthy of retaliation with firearms.
 Ben Burrows, Elkins Park
