Guwahati, July 17 -- Time after time happenings in the United States of America testify to the reality that it is not a land of equality, never mind that an African-American is the President of the country.
The cradle of white-supremacy organizations such as the Ku Klux Klan, there is gross discrimination in favour of Caucasoid people over those with skins which are somewhat less white in colour. A large section of the poorer segment of society constitute of Blacks and Hispanics; they also are deemed worthy to take on the lesser jobs, which explains why in airports and other public places, it is the non-whites who appear to be engaged in low-paying, menial tasks. It is equally true that a larger percentage of anti-social elements come from Black and Hispanic neighbourhoods ' it does not require much sociological acumen to comprehend why this should be so. This factor leads to racial profiling ' the stigma associated with a segment of a particular community stains the entire social group ' thereby making the job of individuals to overcome the handicap of birth all the more difficult. The latest example of such racial profiling has been the case involving George Zimmerman, a volunteer of a neighbourhood watch in Florida, who shot dead an unarmed black teenager ' and his acquittal on the charge of murder by a Jury which consisted of six women, five of these being white.
There have been some violent repercussions to this verdict, but not to the extent when thousands of protesters had marched after the incident first occurred a year ago. The acquittal of Zimmerman of the charge of shooting TrayvonMartin citing self-defence throws up other questions on liberal interpretation of 'self-defence' in many of the US states including Florida, as also the liberal gun-laws which have seen a recurrent pattern of mayhem. But, above all, it deals with the issue of continuance of racial profiling whereby most American whites consider every black teenager, no matter how well educated or coming from what background, to be a potential criminal. This is an ugly reality in the American society ' one which cost Trayvon his life, his only crime being that he was at the wrong place at the wrong time when a trigger-happy vigilante too was present. However, it would be wrong to place the onus of culpability on the American society alone ' the white-black-brown stereotyping is prevalent in most European countries, while the racial profiling in some form or the other is to be found all over the world. It is the racist bigotry which leads to negative profiling, and it would need a long time for the world to see an end to it. In the meantime, victims such as Trayvon would continue to pay with their lives because human beings cannot perceive the basic commonalities of the existential condition.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Assam Tribune. For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com
