A juror in the George Zimmerman trial said Monday that the neighborhood watch volunteer never should have gotten out of his car the night last year when he shot and killed young TrayvonMartin.
In the first juror interview since Zimmerman was acquitted Saturday night, the juror also said the initial division among the six-woman panel when they began deliberating was three for acquittal, one for second-degree murder and two for manslaughter. As they reviewed the evidence, the jurors came to believe Zimmerman, 29, truly feared for his life when he pulled the trigger.
The juror, who was not identified but known as B-37, was one of the three initially for acquittal. She is planning to write a book about the trial. She told CNN she wanted to remain "cautious" and that is why she didn't want her face shown.
She said Zimmerman was "a man whose heart was in the right place," but he went too far and did not use good judgment.
She added that Zimmerman did have the right to carry his pistol. "I think it's everyone's right to carry a gun" as long as they use it responsibly, she said.
The juror said she thought Trayvon, 17, threw the first punch, and she believed Zimmerman's recount of what happened that night. "I think George was pretty consistent and told the truth basically," she said.
She also said she didn't think the attack was racially motivated. Instead, Zimmerman simply thought of Trayvon as a suspicious character.
She said the laws they had to consider were "very confusing," so they took their time to think through it all carefully.
Then, after they gave the bailiff their decision, they cried.
"It was just hard thinking that someone had lost their life and nothing else could be done about it," she told CNN. "It's a tragedy that this happened."
Meanwhile in Washington, Attorney General Eric Holder called Trayvon's death "unnecessary" and vowed to proceed with a civil rights inquiry after Zimmerman's acquittal on charges of second-degree murder and manslaughter.
Holder told a convention of the nation's largest black sorority that the federal government is "determined to meet division and confusion with understanding and compassion -- and also with truth."
"The Justice Department shares your concern. I share your concern," he told Delta Sigma Theta.
"This tragedy provides yet another opportunity for our nation to speak honestly about the complicated and emotionally charged issues that this case has raised," Holder said. 
