George Zimmerman's acquittal was set in motion on February 26, last year, before Martin's body was cold. When Florida police arrived on the scene, they encountered a grown man who acknowledged killing an unarmed 17-year-old boy.
They did not arrest the man or test him for drug or alcohol use. They conducted a lacklustre search for forensic evidence. They hardly bothered to look for witnesses. 
Only a national outcry forced authorities to investigate the killing seriously. Even after six weeks, evidence was found to justify arresting Zimmerman, charging him with second-degree murder and putting him on trial. But the chance of establishing what happened that night was lost. The only complete narrative was Zimmerman's.
Jurors knew Zimmerman was a self-appointed guardian of the neighbourhood who carried a loaded gun. They were told he profiled Martin - young, black, hooded sweatshirt - as a criminal. They heard he stalked Martin despite the advice of a 911 operator; that the stalking led to a confrontation; and that, as a result, Zimmerman fatally shot Martin in the chest.
The jurors knew that Martin was carrying only a bag of sweets and a soft drink. They knew that Martin was walking from a 7-Eleven to his father's girlfriend's house when he saw a man in an SUV following him.
To me, and to many who watched the trial, the fact that Zimmerman initiated the tragic encounter was enough to establish, at a minimum, guilt of manslaughter. The six women on the jury disagreed.
Those jurors also knew that Martin, at the time of death, was three weeks past his 17th birthday. But black boys in the US are not allowed to be children. They are assumed to be men and full of menace.
I don't know if the jury, which included no African Americans, consciously or unconsciously bought into this racist way of thinking [#x20ac]" there's really no other word. But it hardly matters, because police and prosecutors initially did.
The assumption underlying their ho-hum approach was that Zimmerman had the right to self-defence but Martin - young, male, black - did not. The assumption was that Zimmerman would fear for his life in a hand-to-hand struggle but Martin - young, male, black - would not.
If anyone wonders why African Americans feel so passionately about this case, it's because we know that our 17-year-old sons are boys, not men. It's because we know their adolescent bravado is just that - an imitation, not the real thing.
We know how frightened our sons would be, walking home alone and realising they were being followed. We know how torn they would be between a child's fear and a child's idea of manly behaviour. We know how they would struggle to decide between flight or fight.
And we know that an unarmed skinny boy, no matter how big and bad he tries to seem, does not pose a mortal threat to a man who outweighs him by 50 pounds and has had martial arts training. We know the boy may well have threatened the man's pride, but not his life.
The conversation we need to have is about why, for example, black men are no more likely than white men to smoke marijuana but nearly four times as likely to be arrested for it - and condemned to a cycle of incarceration and unemployment. I call this racism. What do you call it?
Trayvon Martin was fighting more than George Zimmerman that night. He was up against prejudices as old as history, and he never had a chance. - Washington Post
