Passions continued to simmer two nights after the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the death of Trayvon Martin as protesters broke store windows, stopped traffic, and attacked cars and pedestrians. 
Protesters angered by the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin ran through the streets of Los Angeles, breaking store windows, stopping traffic, and attacking passing cars and pedestrians late Monday night as passions continued to simmer two nights after the verdict in Florida. At least a dozen people were arrested. 
The protest began at 6 p.m. as a ''prayer rally'' in Leimert Park that was organized by Project Islamic HOPE, but police officials said about 150 people broke off from that peaceful gathering and began committing vandalism and assaults. The Los Angeles Police Department declared a tactical alert at 9 p.m. as crowds swelled in the streets, and the police later declared an unlawful assembly, allowing them to arrest protesters who did not clear the streets. Fourteen people were arrested.
''We are a better city than what we have seen tonight in the hands of a few people, and we will make sure that the community here in South Los Angeles is safe on its streets,'' the city's new mayor, Eric Garcetti, said at a news conference Monday night. He appealed to the protesters to remain peaceful. ''The Martin family didn't ask anybody to break car windows,'' he said. ''They didn't ask anybody to take little kids' scooters. They didn't ask anyone to attack businesses. And they certainly didn't say to take over traffic in the streets.''
The unrest in Los Angeles, the site of several nights of deadly rioting after the 1992 acquittal of police officers in the Rodney King beating, saw anger once again boil over. Protesters broke windows at Walmart and several other stores. They ran through the streets, blocking traffic and repeatedly jumping on stopped cars, kicking them, dancing on the hoods. A local television news crew was attacked.
''Twenty-one years ago we witnessed what could happen when there's a reaction to a verdict,'' said Mark Ridley-Thomas, a Los Angeles County supervisor who represents South Los Angeles. ''Similar sentiments are being expressed here in this space, but the response of the L.A.P.D. is qualitatively different. It has taken a posture of respecting the constitutional rights of those who choose to peacefully express their point of view, even at the point of protest.'' He urged protesters to remain nonviolent, which he called ''the most effective way to communicate how to address injustice.''
