Rioters get their way
A man defends himself and the responding authorities find no probable cause to arrest him for any crime. The district attorney review finds no basis to charge the man for any crime.
Public outcry ensues from a "select group" of society. This group commits acts of civil disobedience, forcing the DA to charge the man with a crime. The state is unable to meet the burden of proof to convict and the man found "not guilty" is set free.
Now the "select group" riots, destroying, pillaging and plundering public and private property, and commits other criminal acts such as assaulting responding police. Now the federal government steps in to pursue the "not guilty" with whatever federal crimes that may have a chance at obtaining a conviction due to its lower burden of proof to appease the "select group" committing crimes against society because of the not guilty verdict. 
The moral of this story is if you are not happy with the way the laws of this great country work, you are entitled to go out to the streets and commit crimes against whomever you choose with no remorse or guilt.
May God save us all?
M. KowalskiSalinas
They know nothing of racism
There is no comparison between Emmett Till and TrayvonMartin, except this: Juxtapose today's slick music videos with the ubiquitous grainy, black and white reels showing fire hoses and dogs let loose on the helpless crowds scattered in the streets, and it's mortifying how the post-Civil Rights generation goes on and on about racism as if they experienced cross burnings and "colored/whites only" signs. They know nothing of what it's like to endure the genuine oppression of that time, and it's the greatest insult to equate today's shortcomings with yesterday's true racism.
Considering the eerie still photos of lynched men in trees with the perpetrators standing on the ground as if posing for elementary class pictures, it's blasphemous how the pre-Civil Rights generation goes on and on about racism as if yesterday's rampant injustice is the same as today's coveted tolerance.
They know everything of what it's like to endure those unspeakable acts and it's shameful they denounce the very civil rights advancements that allow them to decry to their heart's content without fear of yesteryear's reprisal.
Declaring Trayvon as the new Emmett merely serves to diminish the tangible progress we've made since that night in Money, Mississippi, 1955.
Cynthia ShafferSalinas
Skin color is everything
Had this not been a white on black tragedy, but instead white on white, black on white, or black on black, it's difficult to imagine that it would have been on national news for weeks or raised the ire of the president, attorney general and NAACP and brought to the streets those who feel a need to protest just about anything.
Alan PeelPacific Grove
Comments about Ben Jealous unnecessary
Charles Greenleaf's July 16 comments are the reason our community and country need men like Ben Jealous who devote their lives to fight for justice and fairness.
We applaud Ben Jealous in seeking all avenues of justice allowed by America and our judicial system. We are longtime Monterey County residents and third generation Americans of Mexican descent.
Greenleaf's inherent need to ethnically dissect Jealous and his parents is despicable and devalues his commentary.
We join Ben Jealous in fighting for social justice issues, and we are not going to shut up and go away!
Juan and Linda SanchezSalinas
Monterey's cemetery falling apart
The Monterey City Council needs to take a walk through our cemetery.
Downsizing of cemetery maintenance staff and replacing them with outside contractors has left the cemetery in a mess. Older markers are disappearing under a carpet of grass. None of the markers are edged or maintained in any way. It is really sad to see markers dated 1815 sinking out of sight.
This is part of Monterey's history and it needs to be taken care of or it will disappear.
Jean HesslerMonterey
Unsafe for Intergarrison to be open
Thank goodness for Jane Parker's common sense leadershipregarding the opening of Intergarrison Road .
I live a few blocks from the intersection of Schoonover and Intergarrison and I can tell you that the area is unsafe for Intergarrison to be open to through traffic.
As Parker pointed out in the July 14 Herald, the undeveloped Jerry Smith Trailhead would clearly present an unsafe situation. In addition, the reliance on Eighth Street as a commuter corridor to get to Giggling is poorly planned, because the road is underdeveloped and runs into another trailhead widely used by the public.
At times Intergarrison seems more like Highway 68, with people speeding when the limit is already at 55 mph, while Canyon Del Rey Boulevard is at 45 mph and Gen. Jim Moore ranges from 35 to 45 mph.
The rate of speed on Intergarrison has created another unsafe environment. Since the road has been closed, more people use the two-mile stretch from Schoonover to CSU Monterey Bay to commute on bicycles and for recreational running and walking.
The push to open Intergarrison to through traffic definitely needs to be challenged and put on hold while the issues of public safety are addressed.
Dennis TibbettsMarina
Let people have their fireworks
I just wonder: Does anyone have the number of stray animals turned in to the SPCA that were actually caused by the Seaside fireworks?
I think Seaside is getting a bad rap for this fireworks thing. As far as I know, there were no major injuries and no fires of any kind. It is only one night out of the whole year. People need to get over it. There are so many other things to worry about than a little noise.
And yes, we have animals. We just stay home to assure them they are safe.
I vote for letting the people have their parties and fireworks.
Sherry GruwellSeaside
