MIAMI - A juror in the George Zimmerman trial said Monday that the panel was initially split, with three votes for not guilty, two for manslaughter and one for second-degree murder. 
"There was a couple of them in there that wanted to find him guilty of something. And after hours and hours and hours of deliberating over the law, and reading it over and over and over again, we just decided there's no other way or place to go," she told CNN's Anderson Cooper.
The woman known as Juror B37 said the actions of Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, and Trayvon Martin both led to the teenager's fatal shooting last year but that Zimmerman did not break the law.
She said that Zimmerman made some poor decisions leading up to the shooting but that Martin wasn't innocent, either.
"I think both were responsible for the situation they had gotten themselves into," said the juror, who is planning to write a book about the trial. "I think they both could have walked away."
The juror said Detective Chris Serino of the Sanford, Fla., police made a big impression on her, because he would have been accustomed to dealing with murders and similar cases. He would have known how to spot a liar, and yet he said he believed Zimmerman, the juror said.
Legal analysts agreed that Serino's testimony was a blow to the state's case.
The juror was not impressed by the testimony of Rachel Jeantel, who was talking with Martin by cellphone moments before he was fatally shot by Zimmerman in February 2012.
"I didn't think it was very credible, but I felt very sorry for her," the juror said. "She didn't want to be there."
The interview came two days after the six-woman jury acquitted Zimmerman of second-degree murder in the shooting death of Martin in a gated community in Sanford. Martin was black; Zimmerman has a white father and a Peruvian mother. Zimmerman was not arrested for 44 days, and the delay in charging him led to protests from those who thought race was a factor in the handling of the case.
Although prosecutors accused Zimmerman of profiling Martin, Zimmerman maintained that he acted in self-defense.
