Amonth or so after America elected its first non-white president I was in a gun shop in South Carolina. The term "gun shop" doesn't really do this place justice; it was a gun cathedral, a huge windowless warehouse whose walls were covered in rifles and knives and traps and - for wussies - pepper sprays and assorted less lethal paraphernalia. But the big guns were the pride and joy.
The friendly owner had agreed to let the BBC come and film a few sequences for a longer piece about gun laws and gun ownership. He let us loose off a couple of rounds in the testing range at the back. The time came to leave. "So just to check," I asked, "if we wanted to buy this weapon [it was a semi-automatic rifle], you would let me?" "Well ..." he looked genuinely crestfallen. "I gotta say there's a problem. You could have the gun for sure, but see the thing is, I can't sell you no ammunition." 
Why not? "Because we've run out ..." Wow. The rest of the world was on a high. Much of America was on a high. But in rural South Carolina they spat out their chewing tobacco, cranked up the pickup truck and headed into town to get in line for ammo.
Part of this has nothing to do with racism. Some rural Americans genuinely believed that this new president - who was not from these parts - might have designs on their guns. Although he had not campaigned for changes in gun laws he might still change his mind; best to err on the side of caution in the field of ammunition just as one might stock up on old-fashioned light bulbs or anything else that might soon be difficult to come by.
But many Americans - when I have told them that story - have winced. It reminds them of something dark, something buried but refusing to die.
America's division between black and white is not the same as the divisions that exist in British and other societies. In America there is a crucial added ingredient. A poison: slavery.
That is why the sense of injustice felt by many Americans over TrayvonMartin's death at the hands of George Zimmerman is so profound. A black man (a boy really) was confronted and when he fought back he was killed. He was wronged and then punished. Remind you of anything? It reminds many Americans - black and white - of the crack of the slave-owner's whip. During the trail it was revealed that TrayvonMartin had made a phone call minutes before he was killed in which he talked of being followed by "a creepy-ass cracker". Cracker is a mild form of racial abuse black people can use about whites - its origins are disputed but some say the crack is the crack of that whip.
That whip. Someone called it America's Original Sin. Like Original Sin, slavery in this narrative hovers in the background of American life, demanding eternal atonement, never capable of being quenched. Not by the constitutional amendment that ended it. Not by the end (many years later) of formal discrimination. Not by the election of President Obama. Not by anything Americans seem capable of doing or saying or thinking.
That is what depresses many of those who long for post-racial America to emerge. The whip, they believe, still oppresses blacks because (and this is the really important point) the whip is now the mental image that many white people have of their black fellow citizens: they are frightened of them. Deep down, they wish they'd go away.
Not all Americans are so pessimistic.
Indeed plenty think the racial aspect of the Martin case has been overdone; stoked by politicians and media people who want to tell a story that makes ears prick up and eyeballs stay on screens. If you look at the Florida law that allows self-defence - standing your ground - it simply says that victims of an attack can defend themselves when they think they are in great danger.
I remember when they passed the law; it was 2005 and social conservatives were on a roll. George W. Bush had just been re-elected and Florida Republicans, encouraged by the gun lobby, wanted to cash in.
Perhaps they knew the old joke about the Miami tourist board slogan in the bad old days when crime was at its height: "Come back to Miami, we weren't shooting at you!" I think they genuinely believed it would reduce crime - and to this day some claim that it has. At any rate the "stand your ground" rules applied - and apply today - to all Floridians of any ethnicity. You can shoot someone who threatens you. Period, as the Americans say. Mr Zimmerman's defence team even claimed that their man would not have stood trial had he been black. The racial politics - the product of Original Sin - had been superimposed once again, they suggested, on modern American life.
So what does America do now? The big decision is this: Eric Holder, the Attorney-General, has to decide whether to take up federal civil rights charges against Mr Zimmerman, in a trial many would regard as proper justice, and many as a witch hunt. Plenty of ammunition for the race pessimists.
And for the optimists, well, here's a glimmer, though it will not be much comfort to TrayvonMartin's parents. Mr Holder, the man in the hot seat, is black - the first African-American to hold the post. Whatever he decides, the fact of him being the decider is, perhaps, just perhaps, progress.
Justin Webb presents Today on Radio 4
Many white people are frightened of their fellow black citizens
