Anti-racists are planning action in the wake of last Saturday's "not guilty" verdict on the George Zimmerman trial. "If anything good is to come, this is the time to build a movement," National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People (NAACP) spokesman Eric Wingerter told his organisation's convention in Orlando, Florida, which ends today. He spoke to 4,000 delegates from the US's oldest civil rights organisation just 30 miles from Sanford, where Zimmerman was cleared of murder or manslaughter for shooting unarmed black teenager TrayvonMartin dead. We've seen fatalistic reactions to the verdict.  
"Legally, we have to accept a jury's ruling to acquit former neighbourhood watchman Zimmerman in the shooting death of Florida teen TrayvonMartin," the victim's lawyer Daryl Parks told Face the Nation on Sunday. He suggested that Florida's "horrible shoot-first law" - the "stand your ground" clause - and the instructions given to the jury made its decision unsurprising. But NAACP president Benjamin Jealous told the same show that federal criminal charges could still await Zimmerman. "There may be a civil action by the family, but there should definitely be criminal charges brought by the Justice Department," he said. Under the 2009 Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jnr Hate Crimes Prevention Act federal investigators would have to show that race was a factor in Zimmerman's decision-making that fatal night. And Jealous believes "there seems to be plenty of evidence that suggests race may indeed have been a factor." The Justice Department says its investigation into the matter is "ongoing." Zimmerman, who at first invoked Florida's stand your ground law, claims he shot Martin in self-defence during a physical fight with him in a Sanford gated community last year. Prosecutors played a tape during the trial in which Zimmerman is heard talking to police over the phone after spotting Martin walking in the neighbourhood. Martin had just finished a family visit and had stopped at a shop to buy sweets. The unarmed 17-year-old, an A-plus student on his way to a college scholarship, was on his way home when he was murdered. Zimmerman was heard on the tape describing Martin to police as a "fucking punk." When police told him not to pursue Martin he continued to track, stalk and eventually kill him. "These punks always get away," he was heard to say when police told him to stop following the youth. Many have criticised the prosecution for not being vigorous enough in pushing charges against Zimmerman. The tape mentioned above, for example, was never brought up by the prosecution during its summing up. The prosecution team was appointed by Florida's "tea party" governor Rick Scott and headed by a conservative Republican, Angela Corey. Corey never argued before the court during the trial, leaving that to underlings. Critics claim she did not wish to anger her right-wing constituents whose support she needs for re-election. Georgetown University professor and civil rights activist Michael Eric Dyson says it's clear "the attack was racially motivated from the very beginning. "in the 21st century, in this so-called post-racial era, we know race continues to make a huge difference. "TrayvonMartin cries from the grave for us not only to grieve but to get into action and motivate ourselves - not only African-American people but all good-willed American citizens - to make sure that this death is not in vain." Civil rights leaders have already met and announced that they intend to make this issue a major focus of the August 24 March on Washington. There will be major efforts to get out a huge vote on these issues in the 2014 mid-term elections. The hope is that we can boot right-wing local lawmakers out of office and elect people who will overturn laws like Florida's stand your ground. This article appeared in People's World
