RAGE, it seems, is all around us. Rage and violence. Sometimes  hate. Sometimes misunderstanding. Sometimes no understanding at  all.  
    We feel one way about that lack of understanding when it happens  far away from us, in another part of the country, such as in the  recent trial in Florida of George Zimmerman for the shooting death  of teenager Trayvon Martin.   
  We feel another way about the lack of understanding when it hits  closer to home, as it did in the weekend slaying of Brian  Topoleski, 18, a recent graduate of Cedar Grove High School. We  don't know exactly all the circumstances surrounding the young  man's death, but we do know that another young man, 20-year-old  Jonathan Lafontaine of Totowa, who had some previous brushes with  the law, has been charged with first-degree murder in a case that  Passaic County Prosecutor Camelia M. Valdes described as "a  senseless tragedy."  
    Certainly, we live in a society where that term has become all too  commonplace. But this case, reportedly the first slaying in Little  Falls in some 30 years, seems truly to live up to the billing, the  type of killing that forces us to take a breath, to reexamine the  very foundations of our basic belief in community.  
    Indeed, to put faith in the prosecutors' version of the chain of  events that led to Topoleski's death is to shake our collective  head, to suspend belief in common sense. According to Valdes, what  began as a case of mistaken identity involving two sets of young  people in automobiles turned into something heated, then something  violent, then to death by stabbing of one young person by another.  To read the prosecutors' narrative, sadly, is to read of events  that might, on any number of occasions, have taken a different  turn, a more peaceful turn.  
    In the end, whatever words might have been spoken in anger, or  whatever altercation may have occurred between Topoleski and  Lafontaine, those of us of a certain age can believe it bears  resemblance to another altercation that, had it happened 20 or 30  years ago, might have resulted in a broken jaw or a black eye. How  that escalation turned into a few split seconds of deadly violence  is what's so difficult to grasp.  
    "This was an exchange -- an exchange that went terribly wrong,"  Valdes said. "It's one of those things where you just have to shake  your head because they don't know each other, and it could have  ended at so many different points. ... We're trying to figure all  that out."  
    Tragically, what we seem to see more and more of in modern society  is a breakdown, not just between right and wrong, but along with it  deep-seated disregard for human life. Arguments, increasingly, are  not settled by words, not even by fists, but by whatever weapons  happen to be nearby. We have a lot of work to do, it seems, to  begin to bend back toward even the most basic civilities.
