Alexandra Le Tellier, Los Angeles Times: "In the wake of the George Zimmerman verdict, which acquitted him in the shooting death of TrayvonMartin, activists took to the streets across the nation to stand up for civil rights. ... Activists are spreading an important message, but what will happen when the demonstrations stop? Will we forget about Martin? ... If we want to honor Martin, we have to use this moment as a catalyst for meaningful changes."
The Times-Picayune, New Orleans, editorial: "Racial diversity of the crowds that marched Sunday indicate that one doesn't have to be black to be upset by the teenager's death. That said, black Americans are likely to be feeling emotions that go well beyond mere sadness or even anger. There (seems) to be an ineffable vulnerability and anxiety after the verdict. Zimmerman's acquittal has left many black parents wondering how to protect, how to console and how to instruct their children." 
Robert Klare, The Daily Reveille, Baton Rouge: "Attacks (on the courts) emerge every time a verdict like this is reached, but the system never changes. Instead of demonstrating a problem within the courts, these protesters show just how unfamiliar they are with justice system and why it operates the way it does. Like it or not, the 'not guilty' verdict is exactly what our justice system should have chosen given the evidence. Zimmerman may have been guilty. Despite the lack of evidence, there is an upsetting possibility that our system just allowed a murderer to walk free. And to these protesters attacking the justice system, this is all that matters."
Rupert Cornwell, The Independent, London: "Every now and then, America generates the perfect media storm. The death of TrayvonMartin was one such, featuring just about every hot-button law-and-order issue you could imagine: guns and neighborhood vigilantes, self-defense and the right to carry concealed weapons. And of course, permeating everything, race. ... Even so, this case will surely not have the same impact on race relations in the U.S. as the Rodney King case did, still less the 1968 murder of Martin Luther King, when entire cities went up in flames. Yes, there has been heated rhetoric, claims that the bad old days were never truly banished. But the protests ... after the verdict was handed down -- heartfelt yet almost entirely peaceful -- surely tell a more accurate story."
David Von Bader, New Times Broward-Palm Beach: "(The) case has called everyone from the lowliest of Facebook pundits ... to ... cultural icons to roost upon a bandwidth-choking, virtual soapbox. Whether you believe that Saturday's verdict was wrong, right or a distraction ... you most likely have an opinion. ...  However, at the end of the day, you're not Stevie Wonder -- so you can't do things like refuse to perform in Florida until the 'stand your ground' law is 'abolished.'"
Marc W. Polite, Time: "The last major racial riot occurred in Los Angeles after four police officers were acquitted in the brutal beating of Rodney King. That was 21 years ago. Since then  ... the police officers who murdered Sean Bell in a hail of 50 bullets were acquitted in 2008, and no riots ensued. The indictment of the officer that shot and killed Bronx teenager Ramarley Graham was tossed outearlier this year. (Graham's) mother didn't call for riots. She made T-shirts to protest. In some ways, the calls for order recapitulate what this case is all about, the assumption of (black) violence."
TWITTER
Will Stevie Wonder boycotting states with "stand your ground" laws encourage more states to pass "stand your ground" laws?
@NolteNC
Ask yourself, is this TrayvonMartin situation bringing people together or separating us?
@JKNYCE 
