The Obama administration was last night facing intense pressure to bring a federal prosecution against George Zimmerman, acquitted of murdering the unarmed black teenager TrayvonMartin, as activists called for a day of action to protest against the verdict.
Eric Holder, the US attorney general, said on Monday that he shared concerns about Trayvon's "tragic, unnecessary death", and promised that the department of justice would renew the federal investigation that it launched last year.
Reverend Al Sharpton, the civil rights leader, said vigils would be held in at least 100 cities on Saturday. Zimmerman, meanwhile, could be back in court within a year if Trayvon's parents follow through with their intention to file a civil suit. 
He was found not guilty of second-degree murder when the jury accepted that he killed Trayvon in self-defence.
Benjamin Crump, a lawyer for the Martin family, said he would discuss the proposed action with them in the coming days as they absorbed Saturday's decision by the criminal court jury to acquit the neighbourhood watch leader.
Holder said in a speech to Delta Sigma Theta, the largest African American sorority, that the department of justice would look carefully at the case. "The justice department shares your concern - I share your concern - and, as we first acknowledged last spring, we have opened an investigation into the matter," he said.
"We are resolved, as you are, to combat violence involving or directed at young people, to prevent future tragedies and to deal with underlying attitudes, mistaken beliefs and stereotypes that serve as the basis for these too common incidents. We will never stop working to ensure that - in every case, in every circumstance, in every community - justice must be done."
The acquittal has placed Holder, the first African American attorney general, and Barack Obama, the first mixed-race president, in a difficult position. Civil rights campaigners are clamouring for a federal trial following Saturday's acquittal, but the not guilty verdict has undermined the chances of a federal prosecution.
If Zimmerman is to face new charges under federal law, they would almost certainly be under the Hate Crimes Prevention Act that was enacted by the Obama administration in 2009. Federal prosecutors would need to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Zimmerman, who is Hispanic, wilfully inflicted bodily injury because Trayvon was black. If found guilty, he could face life imprisonment.
Although Holder is likely to review a case as high-profile as this, the investigation will be led by the assistant attorney general for civil rights, Thomas Perez. Former justice department officials expressed doubt about the success of a federal prosecution yesterday.
"Racially motivated cases are very difficult because you need to establish the state of mind of the perpetrator at the time he committed the crime," said William Yeomans, who was acting assistant attorney general in 2001. "It would require showing that George Zimmerman was motivated by race in this instance."
Yeomans, who was also a chief of staff in the justice department and is now a law professor in Washington, said government prosecutors would have "a very difficult hurdle" to overcome. The department has also traditionally been cautious when bringing federal charges in cases that have already been tried at state level, he said.
Holder may address the issue in more detail in a speech about gun crime and race in Florida today, less than 40 miles from where Trayvon was shot dead.
Holder is speaking at an event in Orlando organised by the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People, which has expressed outrage at the acquittal of Zimmerman.
Trayvon's family were considering their options in the light of Saturday's verdict. Under Florida's statute of limitations, a civil suit for wrongful death must be filed before the second anniversary of Trayvon's death, on 26 February next year. It carries a far lower burden of proof than the criminal charge but faces the significant hurdle of the state's "stand your ground" law, which allows for the use of deadly force if a person fears for their life.
Jasmine Rand, another lawyer representing Trayvon's parents, Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, said yesterday that they had not yet made a final decision. "I believe they will pursue it but it's up to them. There are much larger issues at hand such as making sure this doesn't happen again," she said. "They are heartbroken by the verdict but at the same time inspired by all the love and support they have received from within the nation and worldwide, and by President Obama's inspiring words yesterday."
Obama issued a statement calling on Americans "to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son" and urging citizens to "widen the circle of compassion and understanding in our own communities".
Mark O'Mara, Zimmerman's lead defence lawyer, said: "If someone believes it's appropriate to sue George Zimmerman, then we will seek and we will get immunity in a civil hearing and we'll see just how many lawsuits are spawned from this fiasco. We're not quite done yet."
Zimmerman's wife Shellie is likely to be the next to face court as the Florida state attorney's office pursues a charge of perjury. Prosecutors claim she lied to the court at her husband's bail hearing when she said the couple were virtually penniless, despite having collected more than $150,000 in public donations.
Captions:
Protesters in Times Square, New York, react on Sunday to the verdict. Lawyers say a federal case would be fraught with difficulties Photograph: Adrees Latif/Reuters
