ONE OF the six jurors who acquitted George Zimmerman in the TrayvonMartin case says she "was sure" the voice heard screaming for help on a 911 tape was the man carrying a handgun.
And Juror B37, who is planning to write a book about the trial that transfixed America, told CNN's Anderson Cooper that she thinks Zimmerman - the man who shot Martin dead - meant well.
"I think George Zimmerman is a man whose heart was in the right place, but just got displaced by the vandalism in the neighborhoods, and wanting to catch these people so badly, that he went above and beyond what he really should have done," the woman said, speaking from behind a shadow to hide her identity. "His heart was in the right place. It just went terribly wrong." 
The first member of the all-female panel to speak out after Saturday's verdict says "a couple" of jurors wanted to find Zimmerman "guilty of something."
When they started deliberations, three were ready to vote for acquittal, two were leaning toward a manslaughter verdict and one wanted second-degree murder. But they eventually decided to clear the defendant because they believed Zimmerman feared for his life in the moments before the killing that transfixed the country.
Juror B37 says it was Martin - not Zimmerman - who must have thrown the first blow and believes race played no role in the encounter that left the 17-year-old dead.
The juror was full of sympathy for the neighborhood watch volunteer and his version of the February 2012 encounter in his Florida gated community - though Zimmerman did not testify. She made at least one statement on "Anderson Cooper 360" that bordered on being biased. The host asked her about testimony that Martin used the phrase "creepy-ass cracker" to describe Zimmerman, 29, after the older man started to follow him.
"I don't think it's really racial. I think it's just the everyday life, the type of life that they live, and how they're living, in the environment that they're living in," she told Cooper, apparently referring to Martin and his pal who testified.
The witness, teenager Rachel Jeantel, appeared live Monday on CNN's "Piers Morgan Tonight."
Battered in the witness box by defense lawyer Don West and ridiculed by many in the public for her halting answers, Jeantel hit back.
She called the verdict "B.S." and said Zimmerman profiled Martin because he was black - not because her friend was a threat.
"He was trying to get home ... and that's a fact," Jeantel said.
Martin was "not a thug" and although he smoked weed about twice a week, marijuana made him "hungry," not crazy, she said.
Earlier Monday, Zimmerman's parents told ABC News' Barbara Walters that they are struggling to cope with their new life in the aftermath of the trial.
"We are deeply sorry for this tragedy. We pray for TrayvonMartin," Gladys Zimmerman said, speaking publicly Monday for the first time since the verdict.
Robert Zimmerman said that the family is terrified of the hostility directed at them. "We've had an enormous amount of death threats," Robert said.
They strongly defended their son, who has been derided as a trigger-happy, wanna-be cop eager to challenge a black teen he assumed was up to no good.
"He's not a racist. He wasn't taught to be a racist," Robert said.
&#110;&#110;&#110;&#110;&#110;&#110;&#110;
