Justice: Only about a quarter of the public closely followed the Zimmerman trial, yet the media treat it as the event of the century. They, like their professional agitator cohorts, thrive on racial animosity. 
A new Pew Research Center weekend survey finds that a mere 26% of Americans followed Zimmerman's trial for second degree murder of TrayvonMartin "very closely."
But Al Sharpton, Jesse Jackson, and NAACP chief Ben Jealous have shown in media appearances that they are racial arsonists, stoking the flames of racial discord in a country that has virtually eliminated the discrimination that existed before the civil rights era.
Sharpton & Co. are the opposite of civil rights leaders. Black advancement or success are the last things they want; they seek racial friction, to profit from it.
Sharpton became known, of course, with the Tawana Brawley outrage in 1987, in which white police officers were falsely accused of rape and racist violence. Jealous' NAACP this week absurdly called the TrayvonMartin killing a "modern-day lynching," in spite of Zimmerman being Hispanic, not white, and of his tutoring black children for free.
Consider the facts that negate the media's ludicrous narrative of Zimmerman's not guilty verdict:
VThe U.S. elected and just re-elected a black president -- despite his many failures and broken promises.
VCelebrity chef Paula Deen lost major corporate endorsements for using a racial epithet decades ago, proof institutional support for racism is nonexistent.
VThe U.S. attorney general, the nation's chief law enforcement officer, is black, making it impossible to argue that the establishment is anti-black.
VMany publications and other media outlets will print the f-word, not the n-word -- even for explanatory purposes -- fearful of even the whiff of racism.
VThe white-dominated Occupy movement's rent-a-mob methods were on display in many demonstrations after after the verdict -- not the big, nationwide grassroots uprisings many in the media predicted.
If Sharpton, the NAACP and other self-appointed "leaders" really cared about those they supposedly lead, they might answer this question:
Why is TrayvonMartin's life more valuable than the thousands of anonymous black teens gunned down every year in this country?
The Children's Defense Fund last year released a report showing that homicide is the leading cause of death among black teens, and that young black males get shot dead 2-1/2 times more than Latino males, and eight times more than white males.
Indeed, as CNS News reported, in the 20 days of the Zimmerman trial alone, four minors -- three teens and a 5-year-old boy -- were shot dead in Chicago.
Why don't they focus their energies on that crisis -- and the generational moral calamity at its root?
George Zimmerman's older brother Robert put it best, speaking to Fox's Greta Van Susteren:
"You know, the race profiteers, they have a business model," the "Jesse Jacksons, Al Sharptons, Ben Jealouses of the world, and they have to promote racism in order to see that they don't become obsolete."
