Wonder won't sing in Fla. after Zimmerman verdict
Stevie Wonder says he won't perform in Florida and other states with a "stand your ground" law.
In a video posted on YouTube, the 63-year-old singer said at a concert in Quebec City, Canada, on Sunday "that until the 'stand your ground' law is abolished in Florida, I will never perform there again."
Wonder added: "Wherever I find that law exists, I will not perform in that state or in that part of the world." 
The "stand your ground" law allows people to use deadly force if they believe their life is in danger.
George Zimmerman shot 17-year-old Trayvon Martin during a February 2012 confrontation in Sanford, Fla. Zimmerman said he fired his gun in self-defense.
A six-member jury acquitted Zimmerman of second-degree murder and manslaughter charges on Saturday.
Wonder's representative said the singer had no further comment.
NY man pleads not guilty in Deen extortion plot
A New York man has pleaded not guilty to charges he tried to extort embattled celebrity cook Paula Deen.
Federal court documents show Thomas George Paculis, of Newfield, N.Y. appeared in Chatham County Superior Court on Tuesday morning to enter his not guilty plea.
An indictment filed July 10 in U.S. District Court in Savannah charges Paculis with trying to extort Deen of $200,000 in exchange for keeping quiet about allegedly damaging remarks Deen has made in the past. Details on what Deen's alleged remarks were, and the relationship between Paculis and Deen, is unclear.
A call to Paculis' court-appointed attorney was not answered.
The case took form after Deen's culinary empire began crumbling in response to her acknowledging during a deposition that she used racial slurs in the past.
Rapper Nas gets fellowship in his name at Harvard
Nas has rapped his way to Harvard University.
The Ivy League school announced Tuesday that the 39-year-old rapper is being honored with the Nasir Jones Hip-Hop Fellowship at its W.E.B. Du Bois Institute. It's a joint venture with Harvard's Hip-Hop Archive.
The fellowship will assist students who excel in the arts "in connection with hip-hop."
Nas is one of hip-hop's most celebrated lyricists, best known for his reflective rhymes and deep storytelling. His 11th album, "Life Is Good," was released last year. It earned four Grammy nominations. His hits include "If I Ruled the World (Imagine That)," "Street Dreams" and "I Can."
The Hip-Hop Archive was established at Harvard in 2002. It supports growing research in hip-hop.
Signed copy of Rowling book could mean big money
Not many people read "The Cuckoo's Calling" before word leaked out over the weekend that author Robert Galbraith was, in fact, J.K. Rowling. But a handful who did managed to get a signed copy.
And that could mean a lot of money.
Rowling spokeswoman Nicky Stonehill told the Associated Press on Tuesday that Rowling, the "Harry Potter" author, signed a few copies of her detective novel as "Robert Galbraith."
Bids for a first edition signed as Galbraith have topped $1,000 on eBay. Stonehill declined to comment on how any reader obtained a signed copy.
"The Cuckoo's Calling" was published quietly in April. It is No. 1 onAmazon.com and publisher Little, Brown and Company has commissioned a new printing of 300,000 copies.
