The moment neighbourhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman, a 28-year-old white Latino, shot black teenager Trayvon Martin dead in February 2012 as Martin walked to his father's home in Sanford, Fla., race and politics took centre stage. 
The killing reverberated throughout the nation's black communities, whose members know only too well the harsh reality of racial profiling and that the justice system is rife with racial bias, as many studies have shown.
While these two ingredients were mixed into the judicial process, two other elements in the case retreated into the shadows. Those ingredients, however, would prove pivotal: gun control and Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law, plus its related statutes on self-defence.
Essentially, Zimmerman was able to shoot Martin because Florida law - and the law in most states - permits him to carry a concealed weapon and gives him the right to use that weapon to defend himself against grave bodily harm.
The problem, however, is people can get it wrong. They can misinterpret the danger. Luckily for these shooters, the law also protects against that eventuality.
"The chaos of such defensiveforce situations means that people commonly make mistakes," Paul Robinson, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania, recently wrote in the Wall Street Journal. "The law does not require that a person get it exactly right. It may be enough that the person honestly believed his force was necessary."
Zimmerman said he followed Martin because he thought he was a robber. When an angry Martin turned on him and began beating him up, Zimmerman shot him in self-defence. That's his story.
When police declared the shooting was indeed selfdefence, civil rights activists organized mass protests. The dark hoodie Martin wore that fateful night became a civil rights emblem. Federal and state politicians met with prosecutors and urged Zimmerman's arrest and prosecution. The killing was hashed out in America's newsrooms.
The U.S. Justice Department sent FBI investigators to gather evidence for possible prosecution of Zimmerman for federal civil rights violations. No case was filed.
Zimmerman was charged about two months after the shooting with second-degree murder. (The prosecutor would, at the end of the trial, add the charge of manslaughter as a fallback in case the jury didn't accept the harsher allegation.) After a jury of six women - five white and one Hispanic - on Saturday found him not guilty of either charge, protests swept the country.
Concerned about possible violence, akin to the riots that inflamed the streets of Los Angeles following the acquittal of the policemen who beat Rodney King in 1991, U.S. President Barack Obama issued a statement, saying: "I know this case has elicited strong passions. And after the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher. But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken.
"We should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to stem the tide of gun violence that claims too many lives across this country on a daily basis," he later added.
The NAACP produced a petition with 450,000 names urging the justice department to reopen a civil rights investigation against Zimmerman, claiming he killed Martin because he was black. The justice department agreed to reopen the file. Meanwhile, Zimmerman has the right to get his gun back.
