U.S. ATTORNEY General Eric Holder is gunning for "Stand Your Ground" laws.
The country's top lawman said during a speech at an NAACP convention in Orlando that the law - which featured prominently during the murder trial of George Zimmerman - should be reexamined and reformed. 
"It's time to question laws that so dangerously expand self-defense and sow dangerous conflict in our neighborhoods," Holder said, just miles from the Sanford, Fla., courtroom where Zimmerman, 29, stood trial in TrayvonMartin's death.
Stand Your Ground laws give the benefit of the doubt to the gunman if he can prove he fired because he feared for his life. The law, which exists in some form in more than 20 states, does not require that a person retreat if possible - a concept Holder said is critical in legal concepts of self-defense.
"By allowing - and perhaps encouraging - violent situations to escalate in public, such laws undermine public safety," Holder said.
He did not comment on the Justice Department's ongoing investigation into whether Zimmerman's shooting of Trayvon, an unarmed black teen, was motivated by racial bias.
The Rev. Al Sharpton has been one of many civil rights leaders urging Holder to bring civil rights charges against Zimmerman, who was acquitted Saturday of murdering Trayvon, 17.
Sharpton announced Tuesday he is organizing 100 rallies in cities around the country to press the Justice Department to bring the charges.
Sharpton did not say which cities are involved in the protests planned for this weekend.
Meanwhile a tell-all book by Juror B37 - one of six unnamed women who acquitted Zimmerman - is off the table following an outcry that she was trying to profit from the trial and its controversial conclusion.
The anonymous juror had announced Monday through a literary agent that she hoped to write the book that would give a behind-the-scenes look at the trial.
The plan was scuttled after the juror gave an interview to CNN's Anderson Cooper in which she sympathized with Zimmerman, saying his "heart was in the right place."
"Now that I am returned to my family and to society in general, I have realized that the best direction for me to go is away from writing any sort of book and return instead to my life as it was before I was called to sit on this jury," the juror said in a statement Tuesday.
Meanwhile, in Los Angeles, authorities remained on guard for further rowdy protests after about 150 people split off from a demonstration Monday night and ran through the streets, committing vandalism and assaults and stopping traffic. Fourteen people were arrested.
