Verdict no surprise
Yes, a new twist to the George Zimmerman trial.
"The unthinkable" verdict of Zimmerman not being guilty.
The Sanford police chief didn't want to charge him because of lack of evidence, the county district attorney didn't want to charge him for lack of evidence. So the state DA stepped in from much pressure from above and with what seemed like much delight, charged him with second degree murder.
Zimmerman was found not guilty of all charges. 
Were they surprised?
This travesty could not have happened without the help of a biased media and two racists named Jessie Jackson and Al Sharpton. In the beginning they fanned the flames of unrest with their claims of white on black racism. At the end they called for peace and not violence. Look at me in the beginning and look at me at the end. A win-win for Jackson and Sharpton.
If they weren't so busy spreading hatred to their "sheep," they might have to go out and get a job like the rest of us.
Bill SchriverSalinas
Outrage spurred investigation
Let's remember why the Trayvon Martin murder case was so important. Our current laws find a dead black teenager of so little value that no investigation of his death would have taken place if people hadn't spoken out.
This took 44 days.
This teenager was casually walking home   "meandering," as my mother used to call it   talking with a friend when a creepy guy begins following him. Minutes later this teen was shot in the heart. All that love, pride, care, future and hope of his parents, bleeding out on the ground. All the pain settling in to haunt them the remainder of their lives.
I can't bear to think of it.
If you believe this same slow-to-justice scenario would have occurred with a white teen, you're not facing reality.
Yes, we've made many strides, but there are many still to come.
Vicki DwyerPacific Grove
Make a fire museum
A solution for the Museum of Monterey is to utilize the building as a fire museum.
The museum would house, at no cost, all the historical antique fire apparatus, equipment and photographs that are now stored throughout the cities of Monterey, Pacific Grove and Carmel.
The fire department was the social club of the Monterey Peninsula, and its members consisted of some of the most prominent individuals who lived here. Many of these individuals were influential in making the Peninsula the destination spot it has become, but a majority of the locals and tourists are not aware of the real history of the area.
A fire museum will attract many visitors as it is unique to the local area and a place parents will take their children   after all, children like fire engines. The museum would be a place where school children could learn the history of the fire departments.
We need to preserve the history for future generations or we will lose it over time.
Mike VentimigliaDel Rey Oaks
A question about bull horns
I looked with interest at your picture of the bull and rider in the July 16 edition of The Herald and could not help but notice that the bull had its horns cut off, and was wondering the why of that. Would it not be better to have capped the horns? I don't know but I am just asking.
You know the old saying, "You play with the bull, you get the horns."
Michelle PortlockSalinas
Help rebuild the Alisal
Congratulations to the Acosta Plaza Homeowners Association for advocating for more green space instead of more apartments. What we need in the Alisal is more single family homes with a backyard where children can safely play. We have hundreds of apartments with no recreation area.
There has been much talk about the future growth area, but not enough on how we can redevelop blighted neighborhoods where people live. Realizing it is more expensive to redevelop than to develop, we need to fix what we currently have and not let it get worse.
The Alisal is a strong financial hub, but it is known more for the "bad side of town." Most of our workforce in the hospitality Industry for the Monterey Peninsula and the farmworkers for the Salinas Valley that produce the $6 billion agriculture industry live here. These are hardworking people wanting to improve the quality of life for themselves and their families.
I encourage you to stand together with the Acosta Plaza Homeowners Association in advocating for Parks and Recreation to improve their neighborhood because improvements made here in this densely populated neighborhood will have a positive ripple effect in the entire city of Salinas.
Tony BarreraSalinas city councilman
A serene night at the aquarium
Candlelit tables surrounded by beautiful and exotic creatures, a chance to explore nooks and crannies usually too crowded to enjoy, rhythmic music off in the distance.
Hawaii?
The Caribbean?
No! The Monterey Bay Aquarium on members night.
Kudos to the staff who worked hard to bring this gift to its members, as we recognize the aquarium is a gift to the community.
Thank you all.
Pat BantaOak Hills
