As about 70 people walked from Annapolis' City Dock to Lawyers Mall Tuesday evening, they chanted "save our children" and "justice for Trayvon."
In a less than 24 hours, Cynthia Carter, a former Annapolis alderwoman, had organized a march in memory of TrayvonMartin, the African-American Florida teenager who was shot to death by George Zimmerman in February 2012.
Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer who said he was acting in self-defense, was acquitted of all charges by a jury on Saturday. 
Despite the verdict, Martin has been viewed by some as a victim of racial profiling.
Participants in the march held signs with slogans including "Don't kill our kids" and "Do not buy Florida products." Mayor Josh Cohen and the three African-American City Council members - Alderman Ken Kirby, D-Ward 6; Alderwoman Classie Hoyle, D-Ward 3; and Alderwoman Sheila Finlayson, D-Ward 4 - were among those speaking at the rally.
Hoyle said it saddens her to see that some things in race relations haven't changed.
She talked about her memories of the 1955 murder of Emmett Till, a 14-year-old African-American boy who was killed in Mississippi after supposedly flirting with a white woman in a store. He had gone there to buy candy. She remembers putting her head on her desk at school and crying when she heard the news.
Shortly before Zimmerman shot Martin, the teen had gone to a store to buy Skittles and an iced tea.
"Here we are now, it's 2013, and we can't send our kids to the store for candy," Hoyle said. "Will black people ever be first-class citizens?"
Arnold Smith, who owns a business called the Goodie Bus, said he was almost glad Zimmerman "got off" because the outrage and frustration seem to have mobilized the African-American community.
"Each one of you here is charged with changing yourselves," he said.
Organizers are planning another march for Saturday to join a national series of rallies in memory of Martin. No time or place has been set yet.
Carl Snowden, an Annapolis civil rights activist, said a group of African-American leaders will ask House Speaker Michael E. Busch, D-Annapolis, to introduce state legislation next year to make it a crime for law enforcement in Maryland to profile individuals based on race. Snowden was not among those marching in the rally.
The group, called the Caucus of African-American Leaders, is a local coalition of clergy, the Black Chamber of Commerce and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Anne Arundel County.
Snowden said the caucus will make the request at a previously scheduled meeting with the delegate on Aug. 7. Its members would like to see a bill named the "TrayvonMartin Anti-Racial Profiling Act," modeled after federal legislation U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Md., has sponsored.
"There are some very strong feelings in the community that there was a miscarriage of justice," Snowden said.
Many believe Martin's case could have happened in Maryland. Snowden talked about the case of Noah Jamahl Jones, an African-American teenager from Pasadena who died in a 2004 brawl involving white teens. No hate-crimes charges were ever filed, and the only defendant who went to trial, Jacob T. Fortney, was found not guilty of all charges.
"People believe there were racial overtones in the acquittal," Snowden said.
Busch could not be reached Tuesday for comment.
Sign up to vote
The Annapolis Democratic Action Committee, a self-described group of progressive Democrats, also is using the Zimmerman verdict to encourage people to vote. Kirby said he would be at the pool at The Harbour House public-housing neighborhood in Eastport to help sign people up to vote this summer.
Voter registration forms will be available during the pool's operating hours from noon to 7 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
The committee sent out an email to members Monday, urging them to channel their anger toward positive change.
"The TrayvonMartin verdict shows why you must never lose your voice to fight injustice and unfairness," the committee wrote. "Yet there is no doubt that this year's city elections will be the most important in years and we will need your voice."
Tuesday evening's march was not the first rally on the Martin case to convene on Lawyers Mall off College Avenue. In March 2012, several state lawmakers wore hooded sweatshirts and held a press conference to draw awareness to the teenager's death.
Finlayson urged people to sign the NAACP petition asking the Department of Justice to continue its investigation into the case and pursue civil rights charges against Zimmerman.
"Saturday was a very bad day for the world," Finlayson said. "TrayvonMartin's death must not be in vain."
