"Vesti", presented by Andrey Kondrashov and Mariya Sittel
0020 Headlines: day of mourning for victims of deadly Russian traffic accident; "why can migrants in Russia drive using whichever licences they want and without knowing the rules of the road"?; snap army drill continues in Siberia, Russia's Far East; Putin discusses Snowden affair with young archaeologists; seven people go on trial over 2009 accident at Siberian hydroelectric power station; Israel launched attack on Syria "from Turkish airbase"
1. 0115 Today has been a day of mourning in Moscow and Moscow Region in memory of the 18 people killed in a crash between a bus and a lorry just outside the Russian capital on 13 July. The driver of the lorry, an Armenian national, is being held in custody and has appeared in court. Acting Moscow mayor Sergey Sobyanin has proposed deporting immigrants convicted of motoring offences, presenter Kondrashov says. 
Correspondent Olga Skabeyeva reports over video of the driver in court, wreckage of his lorry, comments from a senior executive at a leading vehicle testing centre and from a Russian MP, acting Moscow mayor Sergey Sobyanin promising to crack down on immigrants who commit serious motoring offences.
2. 0555 The "largest military exercises in Russia's post-Soviet history have entered their active phase", presenter Kondrashov says. Video shows manoeuvres at various army training grounds in Siberia and Russia's Far East.
Correspondent Aleksandr Sladkov reports from manoeuvres in Sakhalin Region over video of paratrooper exercises, helicopters firing rockets, warships at sea.
3. 0955 A court in the Russian city of Yaroslavl has refused to sanction the release from custody of the city's mayor, Yevgeniy Urlashov, who faces charges of soliciting bribes. Urlashov denies the charges.
Video shows scenes from courtroom.
4. 1030 Preliminary hearings are under way in the trial of seven people in connection with a 2009 accident at the Sayano-Shushenskaya hydroelectric power plant in the Siberian region of Khakassia, in which 75 people lost their lives.
Correspondent Ilya Filippov reports from Khakassia over video of the plant, comments from a senior executive at the company that runs the plant, statement from Investigations Committee spokesman Vladimir Markin.
5. 1315 An Israeli attack on a Syrian army base near the city of Latakia in early July was launched from a Turkish airbase, Russian external broadcaster RT (Russia Today) reports, quoting "reliable sources". Turkey and Israel have both denied the report.
Presenter Kondrashov accuses the West of double standards over Israeli "aggression" towards Syria. Video shows scenes from Syria.
6. 1430 A Ukrainian man smeared Polish President Bronislaw Komorowski with a broken egg when the Polish leader visited Volyn, the site of a 1943 massacre of Poles in neighbouring Ukraine on 14 July. Komorowski was paying his visit on the 70th anniversary of the tragedy.
Correspondent Aleksandr Balitskiy reports from Ukraine.
7. 1740 Police in the US have arrested demonstrators as protests swept the country after neighbourhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman was cleared of murdering an unarmed black teenager, Trayvon Martin, in Florida in February 2012.
Correspondent Valentin Bogdanov reports from the US over video of protests, scenes from courtroom.
2030 Still to come: Putin discusses Snowden affair with young archaeologists; "triumphal march" for Russia at World University Games
2055 Adverts and trailers.
8. 2740 Russian President Vladimir Putin today dived to the site of a 19th-century shipwreck in the Gulf of Finland.
Correspondent Dmitriy Melnikov reports from the scene of the dive over video of Putin's arrival, Putin in a submersible, talking to reporters afterwards.
9. 3145 After the dive, Russian President Vladimir Putin gave an "exclusive interview" to Rossiya 1's sister channel, Rossiya 24, in which he spoke about the importance of investigating shipwrecks.
Video shows Putin speaking to Rossiya 24.
10. 3230 After the dive, Russian President Vladimir Putin also spoke to a group of "young archaeologists", and one of the topics he was asked about was fugitive US whistle-blower Edward Snowden.
Video shows Putin accusing the US of trapping Snowden in Moscow by scaring other countries into refusing him entry.
11. 3440 The Norwegian Nobel Committee is examining a proposal for fugitive US whistle-blower Edward Snowden to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. His chances "are not bad, observers note, because, by awarding the prize to the CIA whistle-blower, the Nobel Committee would correct the mistake it committed when it previously awarded the Nobel Peace Prize to Barack Obama".
12. 3505 German Chancellor Angela Merkel has said she expects the United States to abide by German laws in future, following fugitive US whistle-blower Edward Snowden's revelations on intrusive snooping by US intelligence in Germany. She made the remarks in an interview for German television channel ARD.
Video shows Merkel being interviewed.
13. 3615 It was an anonymous informer who tipped French police off about the whereabouts of Aleksey Kuznetsov, former finance minister in the Moscow Region government, who is wanted in Russia on charges that he embezzled tens of billions of roubles. Kuznetsov was recently detained by police in France.
Video shows archive footage of Kuznetsov.
14. 3650 Russian investigators have filed charges in absentia against Magomed Bilalov, the co-owned of a company heavily involved in developing luxury resorts in the North Caucasus. He has been charged with abuse of office.
Video shows archive footage of police raids.
15. 3725 The Russian government will spend some R4bn, or around 120m dollars, to set up 50 new research centres, Prime Minister Dmitriy Medvedev said at a cabinet meeting today.
Video shows Medvedev speaking at the meeting.
16. 3825 The Mercedes-Benz Sprinter van will be the first vehicle to be produced as part of a joint venture between German car manufacturer Daimler and the GAZ car plant in the Russian city of Nizhniy Novgorod.
Correspondent Alena Rogozina reports from Nizhniy Novgorod.
17. 4100 Russian ice hockey star is returning to his homeland to play for the SKA club in St Petersburg.
18. 4130 Russia is dominating the medal table at the World University Games in Kazan.
Correspondent Stanislav Nazarov reports from Kazan.
19. 4405 Presenters sign off.
Source: Rossiya 1 TV, Moscow, in Russian 1600 gmt 15 Jul 13
