CORRECTION (Published 7/19/2013)
A story about two protesters charged with crimes at a Monday night demonstration in Oakland incorrectly reported the crime each protester is accused of committing. Jeffrey Clark is accused of two misdemeanors; Lamar Caldwell is accused of a felony. 
OAKLAND -- The Alameda County District Attorney's Office filed criminal charges Wednesday against three protesters who contributed to a chaotic and violent march Monday night, while Oakland police announced the arrest of another protester on an outstanding warrant.
Lamar Caldwell, 26, and Tanzeen Dohal, 34, of San Jose, were arrested and charged with felony vandalism, according to authorities. Jeffrey Clark, 30, who holds a New York driver's license but listed his address in Oakland, was charged with misdemeanor battery on a police officer and assault, police said. The men were arrested Monday night near the 1500 block of Broadway. A police probable cause warrant states that Clark threw a rock at a police officer.
Caldwell, also of Oakland, is accused of causing more than $400 in damage for breaking a display window at the Men's Warehouse store on Broadway. A police probable cause warrant states that officers watched Caldwell striking the window at least three times with an "unknown object" until it broke.
Meanwhile, Oakland police announced that another man was arrested late Tuesday after a fourth night of protesting along downtown Oakland streets.
The arrest, which took place near 14th Street and Broadway, came on the heels of three consecutive nights of vandalism and violence that left smashed windows and storefronts, graffiti and debris from demonstrators' clashes with police.
The evening marked the first night since Saturday that protesters did not march or vandals did not damage city streets.
The protester was arrested on an outstanding warrant during a confrontation between police and more than 30 protesters after the Oakland City Council meeting, police said. Seventeen others were cited with various misdemeanor offenses, officials said.
Police also reportedly confiscated sound equipment from a protester who allegedly violated the city's noise ordinance.
The crowd was protesting Saturday's acquittal of George Zimmerman in Florida in the shooting death of an African American youth, 17-year-old Trayvon Martin, and on Monday night briefly shut down traffic on Interstate 880 and blocked several streets. During the protesters' marches and skirmishes with police downtown, more than a dozen businesses were vandalized, including some targeted during previous protests.
Among the targeted businesses on Monday were Comerica Bank, 1200 Broadway, the Burger King restaurant at 13th and Broadway; Youth Radio, 1701 Broadway; and Men's Warehouse, 300 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza. All had windows smashed. Sears, 1950 Broadway, had more windows smashed and paint was splattered, and the restaurant Flora, 1900 Telegraph Ave., where a waiter was savagely attacked with a hammer, had its windows broken.
There was no repeat of vandalism Tuesday.
Check back for updates.
Contact Natalie Neysa Alund at 510-293-2469. Follow her atTwitter.com/nataliealund .
