The US attorney general yesterday launched an attack on self-defence laws that he said encouraged rather than prevented violence, as in the "tragic" case of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teenager shot by a neighbourhood watch volunteer who walked free after being acquitted of murder.
Eric Holder insisted it was time to look again at legislation such as the state's "stand your ground" law when he addressed the annual convention of the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People (NAACP) in Orlando, close to the central Florida town of Sanford where George Zimmerman killed Martin in February last year. 
Such legislation, which allows individuals to use deadly force if they believe their life is in danger, eliminated "the commonsense and age-old requirement" that people who felt threatened had a duty to retreat. "These laws try to fix something that was never broken," Holder said. He urged a "hard look at laws that contribute to more violence than they prevent".
The speech by Holder, the country's first African American attorney general, came at the end of a day of intense debate about the fallout from the Zimmerman verdict. The jury of six women accepted his contention that he had killed Martin, who was 17 and unarmed when he was walking home from a convenience store, in self-defence.
One of the jurors was forced to abandon a plan to write a book about her experience after an angry social media backlash. A New York publishing house, Martin Literary Management, issued a statement declaring it had rescinded its offer of co-operation to the middle-aged woman, known only as juror B37, "after careful consideration" in response to thousands of critical messages on Twitter.
The woman gave a television interview on Monday night in which she revealed that the jury was initially split over Zimmerman's guilt, with only three believing he should be found not guilty.
In Orlando, Holder was warmly received by delegates at the NAACP, who have been vocal in their demands since the verdict was announced on Saturday for Zimmerman to face a federal civil rights prosecution.
Holder repeated his promise that Martin's "tragic and unnecessary" death would be fully investigated by the Department of Justice as it determined whether federal action could be taken. "But independent of the legal determination, I believe this tragedy provides yet another opportunity for our nation to speak honestly and openly about the complicated and emotionally charged issues that this case has raised," he said.
Holder described in personal terms how, like other black parents in America, he had discussed with his 15-year-old son how to interact with police. "This is a sad reality in a nation changing for the better in so many ways," Holder said.
It also emerged yesterday that Stevie Wonder has announced he will not perform in Florida or any other state with the self-defence law. The singer said in a video of a concert in Canada that "until the stand-your-ground law is abolished in Florida I will never perform there again". Wonder added: "Wherever I find that law exists, I will not perform in that state."
Captions:
J'hiana Jlapion, four, and her father Jabari attend a protest in Atlanta, Georgia, against the acquittal of George Zimmerman Photograph: David Goldman/AP
