The Justice Department has a long history of using federal civil rights law in an effort to convict defendants who have previously been acquitted in related state cases. Experience has shown it's almost never easy getting convictions in such high-profile prosecutions. 
The Justice Department said Sunday it is looking into the shooting death of Trayvon Martin to determine whether to file criminal civil rights charges against George Zimmerman.
"There are several factual and legal hurdles that federal prosecutors would have to overcome," said Alan Vinegrad, a former U.S. attorney in the Eastern District of New York. "They'd have to show not only that the attack was unjustified, but that Mr. Zimmerman attacked Mr. Martin because of his race and because he was using a public facility, the street."
As to the last element, the confrontation occurred in a gated community, which might not fit the legal definition of a public facility.
Lauren Resnick, a former federal prosecutor in New York who successfully prosecuted a man in the killing of an Orthodox Jew during the 1991 Crown Heights riots in Brooklyn, said the Justice Department could conceivably proceed under a theory that Zimmerman interfered with Martin's right to walk down a public street based on his race. But that would be challenging, she said, because it would require prosecutors to prove, among other things, that trailing Martin on the street constituted interference.
"One could argue it did, if it freaked him out and he couldn't comfortably walk down the street - there's an argument here," she said. But she said federal prosecutors were likely to encounter the same hurdles as state prosecutors in establishing that Zimmerman was driven by racial animus and was the aggressor.
"When you have a fact pattern where one person's alive, and one person's not, and the person alive is the defendant, it's hard to prove things beyond a reasonable doubt," Resnick said.
"If you're trying to prove racial motivation, you are usually looking for multiple statements related to why he is engaging in this act of violence," said Samuel Bagenstos, a former No. 2 official in the Justice Department's civil rights division. "I think it's a difficult case to prove."
The Justice Department has a host of criminal civil rights laws at its disposal, and has made such cases in the past. Among them: the federal prosecution of a group of Los Angeles police officers after they were acquitted in state court of the brutal beating of Rodney King in 1991, which sparked riots in that city. Two of the four officers were eventually convicted by a federal jury of violating King's civil rights under "color of law" - that is, beating him up in their capacity as police. But that law applies only to those in law enforcement.
"People are comparing this case to Rod-ney King, where there was a federal prosecution after a state acquittal, but the difference there was there were witnesses, specifically the video everyone still remembers," said Brian Tannebaum, a Miami defense attorney and past president of the Florida Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, "Zimmerman was a failed prosecution from the beginning - where the only witness (Zimmerman) had the right to remain silent - and I don't think the federal government will try again."
