Turkish dailies covered on Monday disparate response from opposition party, MHP, to Turkish government's offer of 48 articles of new charter within constitution drafting process ANKARA AnadoluAgency does not verify these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy. Turkish dailies covered on Mondaydisparate response from opposition party, MHP, to Turkish government's offer of48 articles of new charter withinconstitution drafting process,EU's recentreaction to Egyptian military coup and US'sTrayvonMartin protests on the streets afterGeorge Zimmerman, murderer of Martin, was released. Several Turkish dailies gavecoverage of Nationalist Movement Party's (MHP)disparate response toTurkish government's call for the legislative passage of agreed-upon 48 charter articles withinconstitution drafting process.Daily ZAMAN headlined "Bahceli closed the doors to48 new articles offer" and published that Chairman of MHPDevlet Bahceliwithdrewhis party's support for a recent offer by PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan for rapid parliamentary approval of 48 articles agreed at the Constitution Conciliation Commission. Daily HURRIYET quoted Bahceli as saying "48 articles are early and redundant."  
The daily said Bahceli disapproved the charter offer and cited Bahceli as "New articles are too early, too untimely and too redundant." "48 articles are early" titled daily VATAN by publishing that Bahceli said yesterday that new articles weretoo early, too untimely and too redundant. EU's belated reaction to military coup in Egypt Some dailies covered European Union (EU)'s reaction to Egyptian military coup. DailySTAR titled "Coup administration isillegitimate" and said that EU retreated after days by reminding thatEU had not called the military interference"coup". Daily ZAMAN headlined "EU called the coup as illegitimate" by publishing that EUshowed itsharshest response to Egyptian military coup by callingit "illegitimate". TrayvonMartin protests in US Turkish dailies covered United States'TrayvonMartin protests on the streets after George Zimmerman's release verdict. Daily MILLIYET headlined "Reaction against the racist decision in US" and published that USbraced for riots againstthejury's acquittal of George Zimmermanfor the killing of blackteenager TrayvonMartin. "Riot against the racist justice" titled daily HABER TURK by publishing that people hit the streets in US because of theacquittal ofGeorge Zimmerman, the murderer of armlessMartin.
