July 16--Prosecutors faced a daunting task in trying to prove George Zimmerman murdered TrayvonMartin, Chippewa Valley attorneys said Monday, two days after jurors found Zimmerman not guilty.
Having to prove that Zimmerman was guilty beyond a reasonable doubt led to the jury's not guilty verdict, said Rich White, a former Eau Claire County district attorney who now works for the Weld, Riley, Prenn & Ricci law firm in Eau Claire.
"If you asked those jurors, that if the burden of proof was lessened, they would have found him guilty," White said. 
On Saturday a six-person jury found Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, not guilty of second-degree murder and manslaughter in the shooting death of TrayvonMartin, an unarmed black teenager. The decision has sparked outrage on the part of many across the country.
Charles Norseng, an attorney at Wiley Law in Chippewa Falls who also is a Chippewa County court commissioner, views the jury instructions in Florida as a reason why a not guilty verdict was given.
In Wisconsin, jurors are asked to examine the evidence and find a person guilty if they have "beyond a reasonable doubt." However, Florida jurors are told they must be "absolutely certain," Norseng said.
"I think you can define 'absolutely certain' as higher than 'beyond a reasonable doubt,' " Norseng said. "Beyond a reasonable doubt is an extremely high burden. It's really not a 'not guilty' decision. It's a decision of 'we don't know for sure, so we can't convict.' "
Last week the prosecution was criticized for asking a police officer if he found Zimmerman's account of the assault to be believable. The officer said he thought Zimmerman was truthful in his testimony.
Despite that, White said he doesn't believe he would have handled the case much differently.
"I cannot be necessarily critical of the prosecution's effort in this case," White said. "When you have situations like this, when you have a death and the evidence is competing in how you conclude the evidence, it's very difficult."
Reading juries is extremely difficult, White said, noting that he's noticed a rise in hung juries as more people watch law-and-order television shows that make them feel like they have more knowledge of the law.
"I've tried over 200 jury trials," White said. "The one thing I know is it's exceedingly difficult to predict how a jury will interact with each other."
Attorney Bob Ferg said he wasn't surprised when he heard the verdict in the George Zimmerman murder trial in Sanford, Fla.
"If you try cases long enough, you get all types of verdicts," said Ferg, attorney for the city of Chippewa Falls, a Chippewa County court commissioner and part of the Ferg & Sinclair law office in Chippewa Falls. "I'm not shocked, but I'm not shocked by any verdict these days."
Ferg said the jury had a lot of material to examine from the three-week trial.
"They spent 15 hours (deliberating), so they put in their time on it," Ferg said. "It's really hard to second guess what any jury does because you really have to be there for the whole trial."
Chippewa Falls attorney Kerry Kelm said that for the U.S. judicial system to work, people must believe the jury got the verdict right.
"I think it's difficult for people to appreciate the difficult job of jurors," Kelm said. "What I saw told me I wouldn't be surprised with a not guilty (verdict) because there was reasonable doubt."
Vetter can be reached at 715-723-0303 or chris.vetter@ecpc.com
___ (c)2013 the Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wis.) Visit the Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wis.) at www.leadertelegram.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
