Guns, race, and the death of TrayvonMartin
Re: "Zimmerman not guilty," July 14 news story.
I don't see why so many people are making such a big deal about the TrayvonMartin case. Regardless of the racial inference, it's just another example of a law abiding citizen being killed by another law abiding citizen with a gun. (In this case, of course, the law abiding citizen also had a concealed carry permit and a "stand your ground" law, a lethal combination.)
Yes, George Zimmerman was, and still is, a law abiding citizen, and he still has his gun. 
So what's the big deal? These tragedies happen every day in this country. As they say: "Guns don't kill people. People with guns kill people."
And as more law abiding citizens get more and more guns, more and more law abiding citizens will be killed.
Dennis McDaniel, Boulder
* * *
In one very important way, the Zimmerman not guilty verdict will turn out good for the nation. Not good for true justice the guy did kill an unarmed kid. But any other verdict would not have galvanized the citizenry or the media to a real debate about the menace of underlying racism in the United States. I shudder at the thought of being a young black person in America with the fear, anger and cynicism that those kids must live with.
Kerrigan Clough, Evergreen
* * *
Re: "Federal case on shooting possible," July 15 news story.
The federal government vs. George Zimmerman seems like an unequal contest, doesn't it? Attorney General Eric Holder has weighed in, much as President Obama did shortly after the shooting, leaving little doubt as to their biases. Let's face it: The administration is not going to waste this opportunity to pander to minorities.
James L. Sullivan, Denver
Biennial of the Americas: just a marketing stunt?
Re: "Image building," July 15 news story.
While I am a strong advocate of the arts, I can't understand the hype surrounding the Biennial of the Americas.
Want to bring great minds together to discuss important issues? Take a lesson from the University of Colorado's Conference on World Affairs, which attracts almost 100,000 visitors each year. In comparison, the Biennial of the Americas just seems like an excuse for wealthy sponsors to attend lavish parties. Sadly, Ray Mark Rinaldi's article only reinforced this view.
As a Denver native and someone who knows all that our wonderful city has to offer, I think Rinaldi needs to reconsider what is "truly interesting." Want to show others what our city has to offer? How about investing more in our education, our libraries, and in art and culture that is accessible for all and not just an elite few? Rinaldi makes the Biennial sound like just another marketing stunt, and perhaps that's all it is.
Maura Johnson, Lakewood
DU professor standing up for other profs, students
Re: "Disappointed in DU law prof's treatment," July 12 letter to the editor.
I was very touched by University of Denver law graduate Patricia McEahern's response in support of Professor Lucy Marsh, who has filed a gender based wage bias lawsuit against DU. Often, no truer truths are told than those by powerless students who have had firsthand experiences of mistreatment through the inner workings of a university department that have gone awry. Even more often, sadly, a university or other system that is violating the rights of its faculty and students fails to respond until the spotlight is publicly shined on problems of immense proportions that are otherwise swept under the rugs of the hallowed halls. It takes someone like Professor Marsh to speak up and stand up for her rights, and in so doing she stands up for the rights of other female professors who have been discriminated against by the university. She also stands up for all DU students, who, at best, have but a muted voice.
Roger W. Helfrich, Denver
Another inconvenient truth about health care
Re: "Six inconvenient truths," July 11 Ramesh Ponnuru column.
Ramesh Ponnuru has written a well thought out piece that brings up many real problems with Obamacare. But he leaves out the biggest of all of the inconvenient truths. And that is that the real problem with health care in the U.S. has nothing to do with the government, but with ourselves. The crisis lies in our own health, not in how the care is administered.
Our food is now brought to us from factories, not farms. It is produced by some of the world's largest chemical companies rather than farmers. And the average American spends hours every day in front of the boob tube, and practically no time at all involved in any physical activity.
Until we as a nation change all of these things, it matters not what President Obama or anyone else does or says. It is up to us to get ourselves healthy again.
Andy Rasmussen, Westminster
The multiple benefits of co op education
Re: "Colleges offering more career prep," July 15 news story.
I was pleased to see your article on career preparation. In particular, I was pleased to see the coverage of co op education.
In addition to the workplace experience benefits of co op education, the more basic benefit is the opportunity to work one's way through college.
I worked my way through college in the 1960s on the co op education program at the University of Houston, a pioneer of co op education. It took considerably longer than four years to graduate, but I would not trade for the experience and the pride of having worked my way through college.
A few years ago when my oldest son started to college at the University of Colorado at Boulder, I inquired about a co op plan. The response that I got was not only no, but they acted like they were insulted that I had even asked. This kind of attitude on the part of universities needs to change if they are to be responsive to the needs of the 21st century. They should be embracing co op education and building partnerships with business.
Robert B. Stout, Evergreen
