THERE will be vigils and rallies in 100 US cities this weekend to press for federal civil rights charges against George Zimmerman over the shooting death of unarmed teenager Trayvon Martin, the Rev Al Sharpton said. 
And the singer Stevie Wonder says he will not perform in Florida and other states with a "stand your ground" firearm self-defence law.
In a video posted on You-Tube, the 63-year-old singer said "that until the 'stand your ground' law is abolished in Florida, I will never perform there again".
He added: "Wherever I find that law exists, I will not perform in that state or in that part of the world."
The "stand your ground" law allows people to use deadly force if they believe their life is in danger.
Sharpton, a prominent civil rights activist, announced his plan at a news conference with several church ministers outside the Justice Department in Washington.
He did not say which cities would be involved, but did say the rallies and vigils will be staged on Saturday at federal buildings.
Zimmerman's acquittal over the weekend touched off protests around the country. The Justice Department is investigating whether he violated the black teenager's civil rights when he shot the 17-year-old during a confrontation in Sanford, Florida, in February last year. The neighbourhood watch volunteer, 29, said he fired his gun in self-defence, and a six-member jury acquitted him of second-degree murder and manslaughter charges.
Mr Sharpton was speaking after violence erupted on the West Coast during protests over the acquittal.
Los Angeles police said about 150 people broke off from a larger, peaceful protest and began walking through the streets, committing multiple acts of vandalism and several assaults. More than 300 officers were called to the scene but they held back from engaging with the protesters in an attempt to allow a peaceful end to the demonstration. Thirteen people were arrested and officers warned they would adopt a stricter stance if the protests continued.
