  A juror in the TrayvonMartin murder case said last night she thought that George Zimmerman's "heart was in the right place" on the night he fatally shot the unarmed teenager in Sanford, Fla.  
  The woman, known only as Juror B37, spoke publicly for the first time during an interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper. 
  "I think George Zimmerman's heart was in the right place," said the woman, appearing in silhouette. "But he went above and beyond what he should've done . . . It just went terribly wrong." 
  She also said she believed Martin "threw the first punch" in the encounter. 
  "I think Trayvon got mad and attacked him," she said. "I had no doubt that George feared for his life." 
  Late Saturday night, the six-woman jury acquitted Zimmerman of second-degree murder. Three panelists originally wanted to convict but changed their minds, the juror said. 
   She did not believe race was an aspect of the case, and emphasized Zimmerman had a right to defend himself and should be allowed to carry a gun again.  
  "He's learned his lesson," she said. "I think he would be more responsible [with a gun] than anyone else on the planet right now." 
  The juror initially planned to write a book but nixed the plan early this morning. "I have realized the best direction for me to go is away from writing any sort of book," she said in a statement. 
  The woman criticized a key witness for the prosecution, Rachel Jeantel, 19, who was asked at the trial to read a letter she supposedly wrote about the slaying, only to admit she couldn't read cursive.  
  "I think she felt inadequate because of her education and communication skills," the juror said. "I didn't think [the testimony] was very credible." 
  Later on CNN, Jeantel responded that she was "angry" and "upset" by the juror's characterization.  
  Jeantel also disagreed with the juror about the racial component of the incident, saying "Let's be honest" - it was "racial." 
  She told Piers Morgan that Martin did not have guns but smoked weed. 
  "Trayvon was not a thug," Jeantel said. "Weed didn't make him go crazy. It just made him go hungry." 
  In the meantime, Zimmerman's parents said last night they have received "an enormous amount of death threats," and have remained in hiding. 
  Speaking with ABC's Barbara Walters, Robert and Gladys Zimmerman said they are afraid even to reach out to their son. 
  "Under the circumstances, we have not been able to talk to him," Gladys Zimmerman said.  
  "To tell you the truth, we don't trust anything, not even the phones."  
   With  Post Wire Services 
