Just as Florida's stand-your-ground law has sparked debate on Facebook and Twitter and become fodder for late-night TV shows, it has officials in Volusia and Flagler counties divided, too.
Photo Galleries
* Zimmerman Trial: Week One
* Zimmerman Trial Week Two 
* Zimmerman Trial Week Three
* George Zimmerman Verdict
* Zimmerman Trial Reaction
Whether Florida's self-defense law should be taken off the books is one of many issues at center stage since 17-year-old TrayvonMartin was shot and killed by neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman and a six-woman jury on Saturday acquitted Zimmerman of a second-degree murder charge.
Those weighing in have ranged from Attorney General Eric Holder - - who denounced the law Tuesday, saying "it's time to question laws that senselessly expand the concept of self-defense and sow dangerous conflict in our neighborhood" -- to celebrities like musician Stevie Wonder, who said he won't perform in Florida until the law is abolished.
Passed in 2005, stand your ground was intended to give citizens clarification on how they could act in the face of danger.
Before then, the "castle doctrine" afforded people the right to defend their homes and property but also gave people the general duty to retreat if possible, said state Sen. David Simmons, a Republican from Altamonte Springs whose district includes southwest Volusia County.
"That requirement elevated the life of a criminal over a victim," Simmons said.
Stand your ground, co-authored by Simmons, gave people the right to use deadly force if there is a "reasonable fear of imminent peril of death or great bodily harm."
"It is truly reserved only to innocent victims," Simmons said.
Assistant Public Defender Matt Phillips was the first attorney in the 7th Judicial Circuit covering Volusia and Flagler counties to successfully argue stand-your-ground immunity in a murder case.
Authorities said 76-year-old Earnest Johnson stabbed his 53-year- old stepson Roscoe Shepard, who had been upset over the recent death of his mother and Johnson's dating of another woman. Phillips contended Shepard beat Johnson with a baseball bat, was threatening him and that the stabbing was in self-defense.
"I think the law is working as intended," Phillips said.
In the Martin killing, stand your ground affected various aspects of how the case was investigated, but Phillips believes it didn't change the overall outcome.
Sanford's former police chief cited the law as his reason for not initially arresting Zimmerman in February 2012. Zimmerman told police Martin was beating him during the confrontation and that he feared he would be killed.
Zimmerman's defense team stayed away from stand-your-ground arguments -- even waiving the right to an immunity hearing -- but the statute was part of Circuit Judge Debra Nelson's instructions to the jury, allowing the panel to consider it as a legitimate defense.
"With or without the statute, I think (Zimmerman) would have had a case for self-defense," Phillips said. "Stand your ground has kind of become the scapegoat."
However, many law enforcement officers see it differently.
"It's a bad law," said Daytona Beach Police Chief Mike Chitwood. "It empowers people to put themselves in bad situations."
He cited a case his department worked in 2010 when Tarrence Gatlin, 18, and Leonard Murphy met in an apartment complex parking lot for a drug deal involving prescription pills.
Gatlin tried to rob Murphy without giving him pills, police said, and Murphy shot Gatlin three times. The killing was cleared through stand your ground, even though the statute does not protect people engaged in an unlawful activity, Chitwood said.
Volusia County Sheriff Ben Johnson, a supporter of gun rights, said the stand your ground law discourages restraint in the use of deadly force.
Flagler County Sheriff Jim Manfre said the law can hinder investigations if people invoke stand your ground.
Manfre said Paul Miller, who was convicted of gunning down his neighbor Dana Mulhall in 2012 after an argument over barking dogs, was initially detained and then released after Miller claimed he shot in self-defense.
"It has created more confusion than it has created protection," Manfre said.
The debate has spread far beyond courtrooms and police stations.
Comedy Central's "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" contrasted the Zimmerman case with that of a black Jacksonville woman who was sentenced to 20 years in prison after firing a gun in the air to ward off her abusive husband, concluding that the state's motto should be changed from the "Sunshine State" to the "Worst State."
Young protesters have occupied Gov. Rick Scott's office since Tuesday, lobbying the governor to call a special session and ask legislators to change the law. Civil rights activist the Rev. Al Sharpton added his voice to the repeal drive, calling the law the "worst violation of civil rights in the country."
"Until we can overturn stand your ground, we risk more TrayvonMartins," Sharpton said Wednesday at the NAACP national convention in Orlando. "We cannot have our sons' and daughters' lives on the line for anybody who wants to pursue them and shoot them and say it was self-defense."
The man who helped write the law, though, said he doesn't see stand your ground being reversed and has faith in the judicial system to correctly apply it.
"I think it's better for a guilty person to go free than convict an innocent victim," Simmons said.
