July 16--Good Tuesday morning to you...
Weather: Blue skies. For the first time in a while, there's no chance of rain today. Skies will be mostly sunny with a high in the upper 80s and a nighttime low in the lower 70s. The chance of scattered showers returns on Wednesday. 
Fast-food robbery suspect caught. Gardendale Police have arrested Spencer Powell Jr., 31, of Birmingham on two counts of armed robbery plus one count of marijuana possession. Police allege Powell held up the Arby's restaurant on Fieldstown Road two days before last Christmas. He's being held in the county jail in lieu of $130,000 bond.
Zimmerman unrest continues. Police in Oakland and Los Angeles had to breakup demonstrations involving those who disagreed with the not-guilty verdict Saturday in the George Zimmerman trial in Florida. Demonstrators knocked over displays in a Walmart in L.A. before guards ran them off. Meanwhile, a white man jogging on U.S. 51 near the northwest Mississippi town of Senatobia claims he was beaten up by several black males, one of who said, "This is for Trayvon [Martin]." The jogger was later found by a sheriff's deputy.
Sports: Yoenis who? Oakland A's slugger Yoenis Cespedes will not be playing in tonight's All-Star Game, but that didn't stop him from running away with the MLB Home Run Derby. Cespedes beat Washington's Bryce Harper 9-8 in the finals, hitting the winning homer with five of his 10 outs remaining. The Cuban-born outfielder hit 32 homers for the night; he'll be the first Derby winner to not qualify for the Midsummer Classic the following night. Speaking of which, the All-Star Game gets under way at New York's Citi Field tonight at 7, broadcast on Fox 6... Football: Pinson Valley standout Earnest Robinson will not be headed to Auburn after all, at least not for two more years. The wide receiver failed to improve his grades enough in summer school and instead is enrolling at East Mississippi Community College in Scooba, about halfway between Meridian and Columbus.
___ (c)2013 The North Jefferson News (Gardendale, Ala.) Visit The North Jefferson News (Gardendale, Ala.) at www.njeffersonnews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
