"Segodnya, presented by Liliya Gildeyeva and Aleksey Pivovarov
0005 Headlines: day of mourning following deadly Russian traffic accident; Russian mayor to remain in police custody; seven people go on trial over 2009 accident at Siberian hydroelectric power station; new anti-discriminatory employment regulations come into force in Russia; Russian official performs rap as part of army recruitment campaign 
1. 0105 Today has been a day of mourning in Moscow and Moscow Region in memory of the 18 people who were killed in a crash between a bus and a lorry on the outskirts of the Russian capital on 13 July. The driver of the lorry is being held in custody and has appeared in court. 
Correspondent Yevgeniy Golovanov reports live from the scene of the crash over video of people laying flowers, attending memorial services, the driver of the lorry appearing in court, comments from doctor and from Moscow mayor Sergey Sobyanin.
2. 0600 A court in the Russian city of Yaroslavl has refused to sanction the release from custody of the city's mayor, Yevgeniy Urlashov, who faces charges of soliciting bribes
Correspondent Garri Knyagnitskiy reports live from Yaroslavl over video of comments from one of Urlashov's lawyers, who had asked the court to allow Urlashov to be released from custody and placed under house arrest instead.
3. 0920 Seven people have gone on trial in the Siberian region of Khakassia in connection with the 2009 accident at the Sayano-Shushenskaya hydroelectric power plant that claimed 75 lives.
Correspondent Sergey Syrkin reports from Khakassia over video of comments from the mother of one of the people killed, as well as a statement from Investigations Committee spokesman Vladimir Markin.
4. 1240 Protests have taken place across the US after neighbourhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman was cleared of murdering an unarmed black teenager, Trayvon Smith, in Florida in February 2012.
Correspondent Aleksey Veselovskiy reports from the US over video of protests, scenes from courtroom.
5. 1520 Russian President Vladimir Putin today dived to the site of a 19th-century shipwreck in the Gulf of Finland.
Video shows Putin in a submersible, speaking to reporters afterwards.
6. 1645 Business news with Igor Poletayev: new anti-discriminatory employment regulations come into force in Russia; Russians may be given opportunity to buy insurance policies online; stock markets up; website compiles ranking of world's most punctual airports; Japanese car manufacturer Nissan revives Datsun brand
7. 2040 A new stamp emblazoned with the face of Marianne, France's revolutionary symbol, has caused a stir after its creator said it was inspired by Inna Shevchenko, a Ukrainian feminist known for topless protests. The stamp was presented by President Francois Hollande
Video shows still of stamp, archive footage of Shevchenko.
8. 2130 A senior Russian Defence Ministry official, Anton Gubankov, has written and performed a rap and posted it online in a bid to encourage Russians to enlist in the army.
Correspondent Ivan Trushkin reports over clips from the rap.
9. 2420 Presenters sign off.
Source: NTV, Moscow, in Russian 1500 gmt 15 Jul 13
