A FLORIDA jury acquitted George Zimmerman of all charges in the death of TrayvonMartin yesterday, bringing to an end a case that set off protests across the US and searing debates over racial justice and self-defence laws.
Mr Zimmerman, 29, a former neighbourhood-watch volunteer who is Hispanic, fatally shot the 17-year-old, who was unarmed and black, in a gated community last year. The defendant faced a second-degree murder charge, which carries a maximum sentence of life in prison, and the lesser charge of manslaughter, which carries a 30-year maximum. 
As the verdict was read, Mr Zimmerman appeared stoic. When the not-guilty verdict was pronounced, his family members embraced. Police removed Mr Zimmerman's ankle bracelet, and he flashed a smile.
The six female jurors reached the decision on their second day of deliberation at the Seminole County courthouse. They had to weigh the testimony of more than 50 witnesses and hundreds of pieces of evidence.
Prosecutors accused Mr Zimmerman of profiling Trayvon as a criminal, following him and triggering the confrontation that ended with the teen's death. Defence lawyers argued that Trayvon was the aggressor, punching Mr Zimmerman in the face, scuffling with him on the ground and bashing his head against a concrete walkway.
Both sides presented duelling portraits of Mr Zimmerman. His lawyers depicted him as a dedicated member of the community who repeatedly offered help to his neighbours. They called witnesses who testified that he was a bumbling fighter who would have succumbed to Trayvon in a brawl.
Prosecutors cast him as an aggressive vigilante who was angry about a recent string of burglaries in the neighbourhood and determined to go after any potential troublemakers. They quoted profanity-laced comments he made to police about ``punks'' who ``always get away''.
Despite all the evidence and witness testimony, key details of what happened the night of February 26 last year remain elusive.
Trayvon was walking back to his father's girlfriend's home when Mr Zimmerman spotted him and called police to report a ``suspicious'' person. When a police dispatcher asked Mr Zimmerman if he was following him, he replied, ``Yeah.'' The dispatcher said that was unnecessary. What happened next is unclear. The two tussled, but no witnesses saw who started the fight. That left lawyers on both sides to try to fill in the blanks.
Prosecutors called to the stand Rachel Jeantel, a friend of Trayvon's who said she was on the phone with him moments before he was killed. ``Why are you following me for?'' she said she heard Trayvon say. A voice responded, ``What are you doing around here?'' she said. Then she heard a bump and Trayvon saying, ``Get off, get off,'' Ms Jeantel testified.
Defence lawyers sought to discredit her testimony by highlighting what they claimed were several lies she told. In presenting their case, they floated the possibility Trayvon lay in wait for Mr Zimmerman and assaulted him.
Another question never definitively answered was whose screams could be heard in the background of a 911 call on the night of the incident.
Both sides also wrangled over the severity of Mr Zimmerman's injuries. Prosecutors minimised them.
The defence summoned expert witnesses who testified that the pounding Mr Zimmerman took was serious enough to make him fear for his life.
In his closing argument, defence lawyer Mark O'Mara urged jurors not to make assumptions in a case riddled with uncertainties. ``You can't fill in the gaps,'' he told them. ``You can't connect the dots for the state attorney's office.''
In the end, jurors had to contend with murky evidence and conflicting versions of events. Considering the verdict they rendered, the defence appeared to raise sufficient doubts about the strength of the prosecution's case.
At back-to-back press conferences after the verdict, the prosecution and the defence continued some of the sniping that characterised their battle in the courtroom. Benjamin Crump, a lawyer for Trayvon's family, likewise called for any demonstrations to remain calm.
``For Trayvon to rest in peace, we must all be peaceful,'' he said.
Defence lawyer Don West voiced his displeasure with the course of the proceedings.
``The prosecution of George Zimmerman was disgraceful,'' said Mr West, who repeatedly complained before and during the trial about alleged delays by the state in handing over evidence. His partner on the defence, Mark O'Mara, chastised the media for depicting Mr Zimmerman as a monster and lamented that the case became ensnared in racial issues.
``This became the focus of a civil-rights event,'' he said. But ``it was a self-defence case''.
Assistant state attorney Bernie de la Rionda was visibly tense as he commented on the case.
``Who was following who? Isn't that what this case boils down to?'' he said. ``I respect the jury's verdict, but really what it boils down to is a kid minding his own business being followed by a stranger, and I would submit that's when it started.''
