NEIGHBOURHOOD watch volunteer George Zimmerman was cleared yesterday of all charges in the shooting of TrayvonMartin, the unarmed black teenager whose killing unleashed furious debate across the US over racial profiling, self-defence and equal justice. 
The nation was on high alert last night as spontaneous marches of varying sizes erupted in cities including San Francisco, Chicago, Washington, Atlanta and Philadelphia.
Zimmerman, 29, blinked and barely smiled when the verdict was announced. He could have been convicted of second-degree murder or manslaughter.
But the jury of six women, all but one of them white, reached a verdict of not guilty after deliberating for more than 15 hours over the course of two days.
Martin's mother and father were not in the courtroom when the verdict was read; supporters of his family who had gathered outside yelled ``No! No!'' upon learning of the not-guilty verdict.
The teen's father, Tracy, reacted on Twitter: ``Even though I am broken hearted my faith is unshattered I WILL ALWAYS LOVE MY BABY TRAY.''
TrayvonMartin's brother, Jahvaris Fulton, said simply: ``Et tu America?''
The jurors considered nearly three weeks of often wildly conflicting testimony over who was the aggressor on the rainy night the 17-year-old was shot while walking through the gated townhouse community where he was staying and where Zimmerman lived. None of the witnesses who were called had a clear view of the encounter.
Defence attorneys said the case was classic self-defence, claiming Martin knocked Zimmerman down and was slamming the older man's head against the concrete sidewalk when Zimmerman fired his gun.
Prosecutors called Zimmerman a liar and portrayed him as a ``wannabe cop'' vigilante who had grown frustrated by break-ins in his neighbourhood committed primarily by young black men. Zimmerman assumed Martin was up to no good and took the law into his own hands, prosecutors said.
Angry protesters marching through Oakland - near San Francisco - spray-painted cars and smashed windows. One vandalised vehicle was a police cruiser.
In Chicago, to the cry of ``No justice, no peace! No racist police!'' a crowd of activists held a noisy downtown rally, while protesters gathered at Times Square in New York City to vent their anger.
