Zimmerman case shows need to control guns  
  Regarding "Zimmerman acquittal; Verdict stirs North Jersey," (Page  A-1, July 15):  
    With the jury's decision in the George Zimmerman case, justice and  order came to an end in America. Now any man with a gun can claim  the protection of the law without the inconvenience of adhering to  it.  
    When Zimmerman brushed off the lawful command to leave his concerns  to the authorities, and instead stalked his prey with deadly  intent, somehow, according to this jury, it was the unknowing prey  that lost the protection of the law and not the grim predator.  
    The gun, not the cross or the Constitution, has become the symbol  of righteousness in America.   
    Ron Greenberg  
    Glen Rock, July 15  
    *  
    Regarding "Zimmerman acquittal; Verdict stirs North Jersey" (Page  A-1, July 15):  
    No matter if you agree or disagree with the George Zimmerman  verdict, there can be no disagreement over the reason why Trayvon  Martin is dead. Zimmerman had a gun that night, and the state of  Florida allowed him to carry it virtually anywhere despite a  violent history.  
    The Stand Your Ground law, also known as "Shoot First," has created  a slippery slope where you can literally stalk someone, start a  fight, and, if you are losing that fight, pull out a gun and shoot  that person and get away with it. Stand Your Ground says you have  no duty to retreat and that you can use lethal force if you  perceive or imagine there to be a threat.  
    Zimmerman was emboldened to get out of that car and confront Martin  because he had a concealed handgun and he knew how the law worked.  We know states that have such laws have had increases in homicide  rates, so why does the National Rifle Association keep promoting  them?  
    Whatever the reason, more needs to be done to end senseless gun  violence in this country. Just since the Newtown, Conn., massacre  last December, at least 119 children and 308 teenagers have been  shot and killed in the United States.  
    This case was about more than just racial injustice or the politics  of gun violence. It was about a kid who was just trying to get  home. The death of Martin was a tragedy for all of us. Ask  yourself: Are you doing all that you can to prevent gun violence?  
    You can start by encouraging Governor Christie to sign the  gun-violence prevention bills the Legislature has passed.  
    Robert V. Tessaro  
    Fort Lee, July 15 
   Mid-July too early for high school football  
    Regarding "Paramus C. on the clock" (Page S-1, July 15):  
    As if seeing the "Back to School" advertisement in the middle of a  flier at the beginning of the summer weren't enough to remind me  how much today's kids are robbed of their youth, then certainly the  article on Paramus Catholic's high school football team putting in  full-pad practices in 90-plus-degree July heat was more than enough  to confirm what I already know: I'm really very happy to have  played high school football in another era.  
    That era was when pride still mattered. Running my own personal  wind sprints in July after some weightlifting at a friend's garage,  not at school with a personal trainer, was a joy since we did it  because we wanted to, not because we had to.  
    Knowing that August meant "captain's practice," which is when we  came together as a group and began to forge that common goal of  working as a team, we looked forward to Sept. 1, when serious  two-a-day workouts with the coaches began.  
    We were striving for unbeaten seasons and team championships as the  players still do today. However, we got to enjoy the full benefits  of summer as teenagers, not as just football players. I wish all  these athletes well as they work towards the same goals I did 40  years ago. I just wish today's high school players understood how  much they are being asked to sacrifice. You only get one shot at  being a teenager.  
    Peter Romano  
    Cresskill, July 15 
   Keep LG tower away from the Palisades  
    The New York-New Jersey Palisades is a unique area visually and  geologically. Years ago it was threatened by rock quarrying of the  front face in a number of areas.  
    The Rockefellers and others saved this visual beauty at  considerable expense by buying out the quarries and other lands and  creating the Palisades Interstate Park. While crossing westward on  the George Washington Bridge, I have often enjoyed this wonderful  vista, especially when compared with views south of the bridge.  
    Now LG Electronics USA wants to construct a building in Englewood  Cliffs with a tower that stands well above the surrounding area and  that will mar this beautiful site. This should not be permitted; it  will be the first step in making the Palisades north of the bridge  look identical to that of Fort Lee south of the bridge.  
    Why does LG need a tower? There is sufficient area to construct the  building where proposed in a manner that blends with the present  surroundings by eliminating the tower. If LG needs a tower so much,  it can build its proposed building at another location. Let us keep  our great and unique vista.  
    The borough of Englewood Cliffs should do some soul searching as  well. It used very poor judgment in approving zoning changes for  this proposal.  
    Alfred A. Seymour-Jones  
    Harrington Park, July 15  
    *  
    With the abundance of empty office space in Bergen County, cannot  LG Electronics USA consider building where they would be more  welcome? Certainly we have learned that corporate egos needing  personal satisfaction are short-term and do not last forever.  Millions of years were necessary in creating the awe and  inspiration of the Palisades.  
    Will LG be serving history by compromising a landmark, over which  our American eagle proudly soars once again?  
    Patricia Salmon  
    Ramsey, July 14 
   Poor hospice care is very troubling  
    Regarding "Hospice care is not always the best" (Your Views, July  12):  
    I also understand how hospice care can fail a person.  
    My mother was diagnosed with a 12-pound tumor that had attached  itself to her stomach, liver and colon. She was then diagnosed with  cancer and operated on within a three-week period. The operation  was not a success, the cancer metastasized, and she died in 2010.  
    She spent her last few days in one local facility where she was so  miserable she begged my father to rescue her. No one was taking  care of her; her roommate moaned and wailed incessantly. My father  brought her home, but she took a turn for the worse and promptly  returned to the hospital.  
    Her second hospice stay was for palliative care. The day before she  went in, she was sitting up with grace and lucidity. The day after,  she was writhing in agony and unconscious. She died within four  days.  
    The morning she died, we made the heart-wrenching trip to collect  her belongings. Nobody greeted us. We wandered the halls  unescorted. Her bed had been stripped, and her few possessions had  been stuffed in a garbage bag and dumped on it.  
    No one bid us goodbye, either. However, before my mother had been  dead for three days, my father had already received several bills  and calls demanding payment.  
    I'm sure there are people who make others' lives bearable before  they die, people who make sure that there are blankets, sips of  water, warm hands and soft words. I'm just not sure where those  people are.  
    Erica Martinucci  
    Dumont, July 12
