Baseball owns the summer, and young stars Chris Davis and Yasiel Puig have given us something to discuss at the All-Star break.
But other stories have emerged to breathe some life into the sporting world during the dog days.
Thank you, Jordan Spieth. 
Sunday's bunker shot heard round the world screamed to the golfing populace that the sport has a fresh new face.
Seven months to the day after he turned pro, the 19-year-old former Texas Longhorn won the John Deere Classic in electrifying fashion, with an impossible shot out of the sand on the final hole of regulation before winning on the fifth playoff hole.
Spieth became the first teenager to win a PGA Tour event since the Great Depression, and it was nice to see him break through in such impressive fashion to earn a British Open spot and that fat check for $828,000. It was even nicer to see him win in old-school fashion, using a putter that was nowhere near his belly or chest.
So why is the PGA Tour waiting until 2016 to ban these extended putters? The most respect goes to the players who are able to overcome their nerves and shaky wrists to make meaningful putts to win big-time tournaments.
As Ernie Els once famously said about his use of a belly putter: "As long as it's legal, I'll keep cheating like the rest of them."
The latest Johnny Manziel news comes from Nicholls State University in Thibodaux, La., where the Aggie quarterback's gig as a counselor/coach at the prestigious Manning Passing Academy was cut short by a day. Some reports stated the 20-year-old Manziel had stayed out late partying, leading to his dismissal by Manning patriarch Archie Manning, but a statement from the academy suggested otherwise.
"After missing and being late for practice assignments, Johnny explained that he had been feeling ill," the statement read. "Consequently, we agreed that it was in everyone's best interest for him to go home a day early."
Then this: Manziel pleaded guilty Monday to failing to identify himself to police after a June 2012 fight. Beyond the misdemeanor charge, he has pretty much kept his nose clean over the past year, outside of a couple Twitter battles and his shove of a grad assistant - who was celebrating an interception thrown by Manziel - during a spring scrimmage.
Manziel's busy social schedule since he won the Heisman Trophy hasn't gone unnoticed. There are too many red flags popping up around him, and it could hurt his draft prospects with NFL teams. Not a good development for an undersized QB who has questionable arm strength.
Questions about his focus will be asked, although the Johnny Football hype will only gain steam this fall because his social media impact already has made him the third-most scrutinized Heisman winner in history behind O.J. Simpson and Tim Tebow.
Former NBA player Chris Herren will be in Austin on Wednesday to share his story of basketball, drug addiction, recovery and redemption during a stop at the LBJ Presidential Library.
Herren starred at Fresno State and was drafted by the Boston Celtics in 1994, but his NBA career was cut short, largely because of drug addiction. After cleaning up, Herren became a motivational speaker.
Herren's talk, scheduled for 8:30 p.m., will be presented by the Last Resort Recovery Center and the Center for Students in Recovery ... UT Austin. Admission is free.
I spoke with Herren over the weekend, and he is excited about sharing his story. I can't wait to hear him because he pulls no punches with his message.
If you're interested in hearing him, I recommend some advance homework. Watch "Unguarded," ESPN's gritty 30 for 30 documentary that chronicled Herren's 17-year struggle with substance abuse.
Several pro athletes responded with shock and disappointment to the news that George Zimmerman had been acquitted of murder in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin. Michael Vick, who did two years in prison for operating an illegal dogfighting ring, had this to say:
"I feel so bad for the Martin fam," he wrote. "We have a long way to go in America but please yall don't do anything stupid. Let God be the final judge."
Strong words from someone who survived a monstrous mistake in judgment.
Contact Cedric Golden at 912-5944.
Twitter: @cedgolden
