Thousands of protesters have taken to the streets in cities across America as black community leaders demanded authorities pursue a federal civil rights case against George Zimmerman, who shot dead an unarmed teenager - TrayvonMartin - but was acquitted of the teenager's murder.
Demonstrations have erupted in Los Angeles, San Francisco and New York, where hundreds of protesters marched on Times Square. 
Marchers carried signs and chanted "Justice for TrayvonMartin!" and "No justice, no peace!" as tourists looked on. Beyonc called for a moment of silence for Martin during a concert in Nashville, Tennessee, while rapper Young Jeezy released a song in Martin's memory. Protests have been relatively small in scale so far, easing fears that violent unrest would follow the widespread outrage over the verdict.
The White House has said President Barack Obama will not involve himself in decisions by the American Justice Department on whether to pursue civil rights charges against Zimmerman over the issue.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said it would be inappropriate for Obama to express an opinion on how the department deals with Zimmerman after the neighborhood watch volunteer's acquittal in the shooting of the unarmed 17-year-old last year.
The Justice Department has said it is considering whether federal prosecutors should file criminal civil rights charges now that Zimmerman has been acquitted in the state case.
Critics of Saturday's verdict have called for the Justice Department to step in.
The February 2012 shooting first drew national attention when Mr Zimmerman was not arrested for weeks, and the case has continued to raise questions over race and selfdefence gun laws.
Late on Saturday night a jury found 29-year-old Mr Zimmerman not guilty of seconddegree murder and declined to convict him on a lesser charge of manslaughter.
Mr Zimmerman has said he shot the 17-year-old in self-defence in a nighttime confrontation in his Florida gated community, where Mr Martin was visiting his family.
Jurors were told that Mr Zimmerman was allowed to use deadly force when he shot the teenager not only if he actually faced death or bodily harm, but also if he merely thought he did.
With many critics angry over Mr Zimmerman's acquittal, his freedom may be limited.
He may also face civil lawsuits from Mr Martin's family. "He's going to be looking over his shoulder the rest of his life," his brother, Robert Zimmerman told CNN.
Mr Obama called Mr Martin's death a tragedy for America but asked that everyone respects calls for calm reflection.
It was a rare statement from the president on a case that does not directly involve the federal government. "I know this case has elicited strong passions," the president said. "And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher. But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken."
More protests have been planned.
Many, including Mr Martin's parents, said Mr Zimmerman had racially profiled the teenager.
Mr Zimmerman, whose mother was born in Peru, iden-tifies as Hispanic. Despite the racially charged nature of the case, race was barely mentioned at the trial.
Mr Martin's family has maintained the teenager was not the aggressor, and prosecutors suggested Mr Martin was scared because he was being followed by a stranger.
However defence lawyers said Mr Martin knocked Mr Zimmerman down and was slamming the older man's head against the pavement when Mr Zimmerman fired his gun.
Prosecutors portrayed Mr Zimmerman as a vigilante who had grown frustrated by breakins in his neighbourhood committed primarily by young black men. Mr Zimmerman assumed Mr Martin was up to no good, they said.
The Justice Department opened an investigation into Mr Martin's death last year but stepped aside to allow the state prosecution to proceed.
In a statement, the department said the criminal section of its civil rights division, the FBI and the local US Attorney's office are continuing to evaluate the evidence.
The department has a long history of using federal civil rights law in an effort to convict defendants who have previously been acquitted in related state cases.
But experience has shown it is never easy getting convictions in such high-profile prosecutions. Alan Vinegrad, a former US Attorney, said federal prosecutors "would have to show not only that the attack was unjustified, but that Mr Zimmerman attacked Mr Martin because of his race and because he was using a public facility, the street".
The court did not release the racial and ethnic make-up of the six-person jury, but the panel appeared to reporters to be made up of five white women and a sixth who may be Hispanic. The jurors did not talk to reporters after the verdict.
'We are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken' Barack Obama
