OUTRAGE over the acquittal of George Zimmerman over the shooting of an unarmed black teenager poured from street demonstrations and church pulpits as protesters called for justice for the victim. 
TrayvonMartin's killing unleashed a national debate over racial profiling, self-defence and equal justice.
In New York City, hundreds of protesters marched into Times Square last night, zigzagging through the streets to avoid police lines. Sign-carrying marchers thronged the busy intersection, chanting: "Justice for TrayvonMartin!" George Zimmerman may still face charges over the death of TrayvonMartin, despite being acquitted of his murder.
The US neighbourhood watch volunteer is now a free man, but the US Justice Department said it is looking into Mr Martin's death to decide whether federal prosecutors will file criminal civil rights charges against Mr Zimmerman.
President Barack Obama and numerous celebrities expressed sorrow at the verdict, which has led to largely peaceful protests across the country by civil rights leaders and others.
The February 2012 shooting first drew national attention when Mr Zimmerman was not arrested for weeks, and the case has continued to raise questions over race and self-defence gun laws.
Late on Saturday night a jury found 29-year-old Mr Zimmerman not guilty of second-degree murder and declined to convict him on a lesser charge of manslaughter.
In San Francisco and Los Angeles police closed streets as protesters marched to condemn Mr Zimmerman's acquittal.
Hours after the verdict, demonstrators gathered in Washington chanting, "No justice, no peace." One protester carried a sign that read: "Stop criminalizing black men."
Civil rights leaders, including Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton, urged peace in the wake of the verdict. The Rev Jackson said the legal system "failed justice," but that violence is not the answer.
Most protests were peaceful.
"While the verdict may be legal, a system that doesn't take into account what happened is a broken legal system," said Jennifer Lue, 24, an Asian-American resident of New York. "Everyone should feel about this, whether you're Asian-American or African-American."
The White House says President Barack Obama won't involve himself in decisions by the Justice Department on whether to pursue civil rights charges against George Zimmerman in the shooting death of TrayvonMartin.
