On Feb. 26, 2012, George Zimmerman shot and killed Trayvon Martin. This much is certain. The competing and contentious reactions to the incident and its aftermath have played out according to form. Saturday's acquittal of Zimmerman does not salve the wounds. 
The jury concluded that Zimmerman acted in self-defense. Its verdict does not surprise. Although observations from outside the courtroom cannot equal the experience of being there, reports from the trial suggested the defense made a more compelling case. Do verdicts automatically convey truth?
On the fateful night, Zimmerman notified authorities that he had seen a suspicious person. His active engagement should have ended with the call. His shadowy presence might have led Martin to fear for his safety. Zimmerman erred in taking the law into his own hands. Would this have played out as it has if Martin had been a white teen clad in a crew neck Florida Gators sweatshirt? The color line persists. Each of us is the sum of centuries, and homeward looks reveal few angels. And to say that race influences perceptions, perspectives and behavior is not to say that certain actors belong to the Klan.
Neighborhood watches make valuable contributions. Civilian participants do not serve in police departments, however. The lesson says, "Call the police but do not act in their stead." The jury might have reached an appropriate decision and jury decisions command respect, yet Zimmerman bears the moral burden.
One human being is dead. Another, despite his acquittal, is destined for a life of notoriety. Individuals and nations have much to overcome.
And as Richmonders ponder events in Florida, may they also pause to remember Jett Higham, the 18-year-old who was shot to death in Jackson Ward while walking to a store to buy a snack. The circumstances of his killing do not resemble the circumstances of Martin's killing, yet Higham's death reminds a weary community of the violence that tears the nation's heart.
Copyright  2013, The Richmond Times-Dispatch and may not be republished without permission. E-mail library@timesdispatch.com
