WASHINGTON: Protests, vigils, and sporadic acts of violence erupted across America as black groups and civil libertarians demonstrated in scores of cities against the acquittal of a self-appointed white neighborhood watchdog on charges of killing a black youth, while a concerned President Barack Obama appealed for calm and respect for the legal process that resulted in the jury's not-guilty verdict.
America's first mixed race President has so far been cautious in speaking about a case that has convulsed America for the racial divide it has brought to the fore, except for one time when he said that if he had a son, he would be like TrayvonMartin, the 17-year old Florida kid who was shot and killed by George Zimmerman on suspicion of ''being up to no good.'' While that suggested Obama was weighing in on the side of the slain victim, on Sunday the President was more circumspect in the face of black fury. 
''The death of TrayvonMartin was a tragedy. Not just for his family, or for any one community, but for America. I know this case has elicited strong passions. And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher. But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken. I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son,'' Obama said in a statement released by the White House even as crowds gathered in many public squares from New York City to Washington DC to Los Angeles, where there was face-to-face confrontation with riot police, including firing of rubber bullets at demonstrators.
Many demonstrators wore ''hoodies'' - hooded sweatshirts mostly worn by young blacks - to express solidarity with Martin.
The US President also called for self-examination from Americans in a country wracked by endemic gun violence that claims nearly 30,000 lives every years, including homicides and suicides. ''We should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to widen the circle of compassion and understanding in our own communities. We should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to stem the tide of gun violence that claims too many lives across this country on a daily basis. We should ask ourselves, as individuals and as a society, how we can prevent future tragedies like this. As citizens, that's a job for all of us. That's the way to honor TrayvonMartin,'' Obama said.
But immediate focus of anger and attention in public demonstration was not so much the trigger-happiness of America but the racial divide that many activists say resulted in the Zimmerman's version of firing in self-defense after a violent confrontation with Martin being readily accepted. Police initially did not file charges against Zimmerman and he was arrested more than a month after the shooting only after nationwide protests.
Martin's supporters say Zimmerman had been maliciously been profiling black men, but his defense was able to convince the jury that he was not a racist; not only is his mother Hispanic, but he had once taken a black girl to a high school prom and mentored black children.
Martin's parents, who are separated and did not come to the court when the verdict was pronounced, invoked God to deal with their grief. "Lord during my darkest hour I lean on you. You are all that I have. At the end of the day, GOD is still in control. Thank you all for your prayers and support. I will love you forever Trayvon!!! In the name of Jesus!!!" his mother tweeted soon after the verdict.
On the other side of the divide, Zimmerman's family expressed relief at the verdict while expressing apprehensions about the future safety of a man who has already begun to keep a low-profile fearing for his life. ''Today... I'm proud to be an American. God Bless America! Thank you for your prayers!" his older brother Robert said.
Black activists and political leaders are pressing the Obama administration to prosecute Zimmerman under federal racial discrimination laws and also persuading his family to file a civil suit for financial damages.
For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com
