What some of the nation's political commentators are saying about the verdict in the trial of George Zimmerman in the death of TrayvonMartin:
Hoodies blind people to truth 
I don't know if Zimmerman is a racist. Yet I'm tired of politicians and others who have donned hoodies in solidarity with Martin and who essentially suggest that I am a racist for recognizing the reality of urban crime in America. The hoodie blinds them as much as it did Zimmerman.
Richard Cohen, Washington Post Writers Group
Don't retry Zimmerman
If you believe that Zimmerman killed Martin because of his race, it's easy to understand the appeal of the civil rights charge. The question for advocates, then, is simple: Would you still support bringing charges even if you believed Zimmerman would get off again? For the NAACP, the answer may be yes. But for the government, the decision to prosecute must also take account of the odds of success.
Noah Feldman, Bloomberg News
A wrenching coda
In a way, the not guilty verdict in the trial of George Zimmerman for his killing of TrayvonMartin was more powerful than a guilty verdict could ever have been. It was the perfect wrenching coda to a story that illustrates just how utterly and completely our system of justice both moral and legal failed Martin and his family.
Charles M. Blow, The New YorkTimes
Armed and loaded
As soon as passions cool, assuming we let them, the discussion that needs to take place surrounds a question: What was George Zimmerman doing walking around his neighborhood armed and loaded? In what world is this normal behavior? The answer: Not a world most of us want to live in. Let's start there.
Kathleen Parker, Washington Post Writers Group
The right to be young
The conversation we need to have is about how black men, even black boys, are denied the right to be young, to be vulnerable, to make mistakes. .... TrayvonMartin was fighting more than George Zimmerman that night. He was up against prejudices as old as American history, and he never had a chance.
Eugene Robinson, Washington Post Writers Group
Florida tried, at least
What matters most is that Zimmerman was charged with Martin's killing, even if he wasn't convicted. The state was late to indict him, yes, and acted only after a sorry spell of botched police work that may have affected the evidence presented at trial. But Florida did try to hold George Zimmerman liable for TrayvonMartin's death.
Emily Bazelon, Slate
Learn from mistakes
If you want to prevent the next TrayvonMartin tragedy, learn from their mistakes. Don't paint the world in black and white. Don't declare the whole justice system racist, or blame every gun death on guns, or confuse acquittal with vindication. And the next time you see somebody who looks like a punk or a pervert, hold your fire.
William Saletan, Slate
What we learned
The verdict is in for the TrayvonMartin George Zimmerman case. What did we learn? Being a vigilante is a dangerous hobby. Juvenile bravado can get you killed. Mark O'Mara is a hell of a defense attorney. We also learned that the jury had no choice but to vote "not guilty."
Gregory Clay, McClatchy Tribune News Service
