Speak up
Re "Martin family, Justice Dept. could weigh in on symbol of racial divide," July 15: Where were President Obama and the DO J after the verdict in the Casey Anthony trial? Apparently, you don't count if you are a 2-year-old Caucasian girl.
After listening to the various Sunday morning shows, it's apparent that "justice" is only justice if you get the verdict that you want. I can't believe that the federal government is looking into another trial (civil rights suit). It's easier to believe that the NAACP is involved with pushing the civil rights issue. 
I really hate to say it and I wish it weren't true, but no one is more racist than the black TV talking heads and the black protesters.
Dehumanizing or profiling TrayvonMartin or any black is a method used by those who promote racism, segregation or stereotypes, etc., and who live a life absent from God's truths.
TrayvonMartin was not treated as a white teenager would have been treated. Sane whites know this, but the conservative jurists could not connect the dots.
This talk of race is nonsense. In the dark, in the rain, TrayvonMartin had his hood up. There was no way George Zimmerman could have even known he was black when he first addressed him.
Whereas demonstrations against George Zimmerman's acquittal are understandable, one has to wonder why there was silence over O.J. Simpson's acquittal on two murders, especially when the former was based on merits of the case while the latter on technicalities of legal procedures?
George Zimmerman was told to stay in his vehicle until police arrived. He did not do so and he caused this tragedy. Where were the juror's heads? I guess they can't hear and they failed miserably.
I guess just because TrayvonMartin was black, he was innocent. Sad that people see only the color of his skin and turn a blind eye to the evidence. Those are the people who are really the racists.
Overt methods of white entitlement, racism and profiling superseded the rights of a black child to simply walk home. The tone of the defense's case proved this point.
The real culprit in the George Zimmerman trial is the Florida state legislature. They passed a law that allows "would-be" vigilantes to hassle their neighbors.
If TrayvonMartin had killed George Zimmerman, could he have claimed "stand your ground?" Or does that law only apply to white people with concealed weapons?
Re "'Stand your ground' law needed in Ohio?," June 28: The "stand your ground" idiocy only gives these clowns an excuse to mow down anyone who seemingly upsets them and have the law on their side. In light of what's happened in Florida, I think it's another way for the NRA to gain more power. Enough craziness is going on without adding to the mix.
Re the letter "Ohio's citizens do not need guns," July 10: Once again, we are witness to the irrational mania surrounding the gun debate. Ban guns? Seriously, what leads one to believe that any criminal will abide by such a ban, which, by the way, would leave the law-abiding at a clear disadvantage? Furthermore, the notion of a Wild West is a myth. Research it and you will find that there was as much, if not more, gun control than exists today. The Wild West was a lot less wild than today's Chicago. It's time to bring rationality back to the debate.
