NAACP President Benjamin Todd Jealous fought back tears as he lamented George Zimmerman's not guilty verdict and said that the issues surrounding the shooting death of TrayvonMartin last year -- gun violence and racial profiling -- would be the next front on the battle over civil rights.
"It took us 60 years to end the scourge of lynch mob violence, but we did," Jealous told reporters Monday at the NAACP's annual convention here. "If it takes us 60 years to end this bloodletting in the streets by the bad guys and the good guys, we will take that time and we will end it, too."
Other speakers used even stronger terms in urging the organization to use the shooting death of the unarmed black teenager as a call to action. 
"TrayvonMartin's killing was nothing more than a modern-day lynching. George Zimmerman became the judge, the jury and the executioner of an innocent child," said Joe Madison, a former board member of the NAACP. Madison, known as "The Black Eagle," hosts "The Urban View" Sirius/XM morning radio show.
"Don't let TrayvonMartin's death just be a moment. It has to become a movement," Madison continued, comparing Martin to civil rights martyrs Medgar Evers and Emmett Till and promising to remember him on the 50th anniversary of the "I Have a Dream" speech at a march in Washington on Aug. 24.
"It is (Martin's) blood and their sacrifice that you shouldn't forget," Madison said.
Evers was a civil rights activist in Mississippi who was shot in the back on June 12, 1963, as he stood in his driveway after a day of trying to get black Mississippi voters registered. Byron de la Beckwith, a member of the White Citizens' Council, was charged with Evers' murder that month, but juries composed solely of white men deadlocked in the case twice that year. Thirty-one years later, de la Beckwith was brought to trial on new evidence and convicted of murder; he died in prison in 2001.
Till was a 14-year-old from Chicago visiting relatives in Mississippi in August 1955 when he was beaten and shot, allegedly for whistling at a white woman. After he was pulled from the Tallahatchie River, his mother held an open-casket funeral, and photographs of his mutilated body, published in Jet magazine, shocked blacks and whites across America. Roy Bryant and J.W. Milam were tried and acquitted by an all-white jury in 1955. In June 2004, the U.S. Justice Department reopened the case, but it declined to file new charges in 2006, as did a Mississippi grand jury in 2007.
Martin, 17, was shot in the chest on a rainy night as he walked from a convenience story to his father's house in a gated townhome community in Sanford on Feb. 26, 2012. Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, called police to report a suspicious person, then got out of his vehicle to follow Martin, though a dispatcher told him, "We don't need you to do that." Zimmerman's attorneys argued Zimmerman shot Martin in self-defense after Martin attacked him, and a jury of five white women and one black Hispanic woman decided the prosecution failed to prove Zimmerman guilty of second-degree murder or manslaughter.
Benjamin Crump, a Tallahassee lawyer who represents Martin's family, accused Zimmerman of profiling Martin because he was black and told the NAACP audience Monday that it was another civil rights battle to be fought.
"Now the neighborhood watch volunteer was allowed to profile, get out of his car and pursue any 'suspicious looking person' based on what he was wearing and how he looked. That is a scary proposition. The U.S. Supreme Court has said that the police cannot profile people. So are we going to let ordinary citizens profile our children?" Crump said.
He urged the audience to maintain pressure on the U.S. Justice Department as it reviews the case. "It seems like we're still fighting the fight that we fought so many years ago that we thought we won, yet here we are again crying out for equal justice," Crump said. "If we're not vocal and vigilant then Trayvon's death is going to be swept under the rug."
The NAACP and MoveOn.org have amassed nearly 1 million signatures demanding that the Justice Department charge Zimmerman with a federal hate crime in the shooting.
For now, activists are focused on the petition and intend to discuss it with U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, who will appear at the convention today.
"We have a chance to really push, especially if we meet the 1 million signature mark before then, to put the pressure on him to ensure that the Department of Justice acts swiftly," said Sean Dugar, an NAACP regional director from Oakland, Calif.
Young NAACP leaders also have started "A Child Was Shot Yesterday" campaign modeled after another campaign decades ago in which flags bearing the words, "A Man Was Lynched Yesterday," were flown above the NAACP's New York office. Dugar was among those distributing yellow rubber bracelets imprinted with the message to conventioneers.
Activists are also using the Zimmerman case to combat gun violence. Changing the state's "stand your ground" law is mentioned as an issue in an email promoting a "Justice for Trayvon" rally planned today in Tallahassee by a coalition of left-leaning groups, including the Florida New Majority and Dream Defenders.
But 24-year-old NAACP Midwestern Regional Director Kameron Middlebrooks of Des Moines, who called Martin "our generation's Emmett Till," urged a push for legislative action.
"Rallies are fine. Those are good," Middlebrooks said. "But it's really about, how do we push people to action? Some of the action we want folks to take is dealing with racial profiling within their states and their local districts."
Reducing gun violence, including changing "stand your ground" laws, was one of three priorities for the NAACP, along with voting rights and restoration of voting rights for felons, said Jealous, who took over as head of the organization in 2008. In Florida, one of a handful states where felons who have completed their prison time do not automatically have their rights restored, felons must wait five years before applying to get their rights back.
Jealous' predecessor Julian Bond, a leader of the civil rights movement in the 1960s, said activists need to keep doing what they been doing for the past 50 years.
"Coalition, litigation and agitation, which are the things we've always done," Bond said. "In January of next year, somebody is going to say x, y, z is the new civil rights. And somebody else will say no, x, y, z is the new civil rights. There is no new civil rights. It's all the same thing. We need to keep doing more of what we've done."
dkam@pbpost.com Twitter: @TheDaraKam
