July 17--"You can't expect a victim to wait before taking action to protect herself and say, 'Excuse me, Mr. Criminal, did you drag me into this alley to rape and kill me, or do you just want to beat me up and steal my purse?'? "
That's what NRA lobbyist Marion Hammer said in 2005, while she was helping to draft Florida's stand-your-ground bill, which would go on to become the first to pass in the country. Like Hammer, supporters of the law argued that people should be able to stand up for themselves against those who would harm them, whether inside their own home or in a public place. Opponents, including those in law enforcement, warned the proposal could encourage deadly violence. 
Since then, more than 30 states, including New Hampshire, have passed legislation to allow persons to use deadly force against another if they feel their life is in danger, whether or not they try to retreat.
George Zimmerman didn't invoke Florida's stand-your-ground law in his defense against the second-degree murder charge he faced for shooting to death 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. He argued he acted in self-defense because Martin was hitting him and a jury of six women found that prosecutors hadn't proven otherwise, so they acquitted him. But in the year leading up to the trial, when it seemed possible that Zimmerman might rely on stand-your-ground, the case rightly drew national attention to those laws in Florida and other states.
In reaching its verdict, the jury addressed only the legal issues in the case before it as defined by the criminal charge against Zimmerman. Where it failed to provide justice -- indeed, where the state's laws blocked it from doing so -- was in the most troubling aspect of Martin's death: that the confrontation between Zimmerman and Martin was completely avoidable, and that it was instigated by Zimmerman's hot-headed behavior.
Zimmerman wasn't being dragged into an alley by a would-be criminal intent on hurting him when he shot an unarmed Martin in the chest. He'd purposely ignored the directions of a police dispatcher and followed a 17-year-old kid walking home from the convenience store with tea and candy because he said he felt the young man was suspicious. What happened next, only Zimmerman was left to recount because Martin was dead and police found no witnesses. Would Zimmerman have so brashly pursued Martin if there wasn't a holstered pistol tucked inside his waistband? Would he have used deadly force in the struggle that ensued if the state's stand-your-ground law wasn't in place? We'll never know the answers to those questions.
That doesn't mean Americans should accept what happened and move on. Here in New Hampshire, lawmakers should take time to scrutinize the state's self-defense laws and again take up repeal of the stand-your-ground law, an effort that fell short earlier this year. Laws that allow people to provoke confrontations in public places and then face no consequences when the situation escalates and they kill someone rather than walk away are unacceptable. Granite Staters shouldn't wait for a tragedy such as the slaying of an unarmed teenager to reverse the unnecessary and potentially dangerous stand-your-ground law.
___ (c)2013 The Keene Sentinel (Keene, N.H.) Visit The Keene Sentinel (Keene, N.H.) at www.sentinelsource.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
