We've seen this movie before. Sadly, there is no happy ending.
We have another racially charged incident that led to a racially charged trial resulting with yet another controversial verdict that satisfies some but infuriates others. We have threats of violence, civil unrest and a divided America.
Tragically, at moments like these, what Americans don't have much of is moral leadership -- the kind that can teach people how to cope with anger and disappointment over what they perceive to be an unjust outcome. 
It sounds as though George Zimmerman and TrayvonMartin both made mistakes in their deadly confrontation on Feb. 26, 2012. Zimmerman shouldn't have been carrying a gun, and itching to play wannabe cop by pursuing a stranger after a 911 dispatcher told him not to. His supporters say Martin shouldn't have been so aggressive, pummeling the neighborhood watch volunteer while he was on the ground.
Unfortunately, in the nearly 17 months since that night, many commentators haven't conducted themselves much better. Just a few weeks after the shooting, President Barack Obama made the provocative comment: "If I had a son, he'd look like TrayvonMartin." The president seemed to be improperly injecting himself into a local investigation.
All the more reason that Obama deserves praise for what he said after Zimmerman was acquitted of second-degree murder charges. Less than 24 hours after the verdict, the president issued a statement acknowledging that the case had "elicited strong passions" but also stressed that "we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken." Obama has taken heat from some African-Americans for saying that. But this is the right message.
The president also urged restraint.
"I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son," Obama said. "And as we do, we should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to widen the circle of compassion and understanding in our own communities."
The Justice Department must not have received the memo. In a statement of its own, it signaled that this heartbreaking drama might not be over.
Now that Zimmerman has been acquitted in state court, federal prosecutors are looking into whether they should file criminal civil rights charges.
Filing charges would be a mistake. Unless those federal prosecutors are certain that they could prove that Zimmerman singled out Martin because of his race and violated his civil rights, this whole thing could be headed for another acquittal. Besides, prosecutors are supposed to look only at facts and the law, and not worry about placating angry mobs.
The president is right: A jury has spoken. In our legal system, prosecutors don't get to retry a defendant over and over again.
Meanwhile, outside the courtroom, there is a powder keg. There have been protests in a number of cities, including Oakland and Los Angeles, where hundreds of demonstrators gathered to show their anger. Many smashed windows and sprayed graffiti on private businesses. A few of them even burned the American flag.
Certainly, it's not helpful to have the usual grievance merchants stirring the pot. The Rev. Al Sharpton called the verdict "an atrocity." PBS host Tavis Smiley said the verdict was evidence of the "incontrovertible contempt that this nation often shows and displays for black men." The Rev. Jesse Jackson declared Martin a "martyr," comparing him to Emmett Till and Medgar Evers. Till and Evers were killed by white supremacists. Is that what Jackson thinks George Zimmerman is?
Obama wants Americans to "widen the circle of compassion and understanding." but the circle seems to be getting smaller and smaller.
Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.
