The following is a selection of quotes from editorials and commentaries published in 16 July editions of Iranian newspapers available to BBC Monitoring at 0530 gmt.
Rouhani must continue Ahmadinezhad's legacy
Javan [conservative]: "During a recent meeting, [Iran's] Supreme Leader [Ayatollah Ali Khamene'i] praised the achievements of the ninth and tenth governments [of President Mahmud Ahmadinezhad] as impressive. He did this while some foreign enemies and some prejudiced agents inside the country used the current problems as a pretext to undermine this government's achievements and Ahmadinezhad's determined endeavour during the past eight years... The question is whether the Supreme Leader's appreciation for [Ahmadinezhad's] government is only meant to appease these statesmen or is there a background to this admiration and gratitude? The Supreme Leader, by showing his appreciation for the outgoing government, tried to attract the attention of the next government to the values and principles which all governments should take into account... Ahmadinezhad and his government were true representatives of revolutionary slogans and values... The next government is therefore obligated to follow the correct path taken by the ninth and tenth governments and to refuse to give up an iota of these values and the legacy of the late Imam [Khomeyni]." (Commentary by Hassan Rashvand headlined: "Reward of eight years continuous efforts") 
Rouhani - reformist or principle-ist?
Mardom Salari [moderate]: "The debate over whether [President-elect] Hassan Rouhani is a reformist or a principle-ist is still going on one month after the presidential election... But in reality, why is it important to answer this question - which has dominated the political narrative of country for the last month - of which group is represented by Rouhani? It seems that Hassan Rouhani should be considered a representative of both the modern and the traditional middle classes in Iranian society... But after his victory, both spectrums [reformist and principle-ist] know well that soon Rouhani will have to face reality. At this stage, he should move towards realization of his objectives and campaign slogans by forming a cabinet. Therefore, the composition of his cabinet and its [political] leaning will be important for both spectrums from the perspective of realizing his election goals and slogans... The dispute over whether Rouhani is a reformist or principle -ist is not an insignificant one as it carries tangible political, social and economic consequences. Therefore, we can see that some principle-ists are already noticing Rouhani's attention to issues like civil rights and other demands of the middle class, while reformists are stressing the necessity of their demands by raising the importance of the formation and enforcement of social institutions. But will Mr Rouhani succeed in following and realizing simultaneously the demands of the modern and traditional social classes without tension as he promised during his campaign?" (Editorial by Mehdi Ghavamipur headlined: "Rouhani, reformist or principle -ist?").
Rouhani's looming budget conundrum
Arman [moderate]: "It has been four months since the start of the new Iranian year [21 March], however, not only the government of incumbent President [Mahmud Ahmadinezhad] appears to have no intention of increasing the prices of energy sources, it has also transferred the responsibility for increasing the prices of other commodities such as bread and some other staple food items to the new government [incoming administration of president-elect Hassan Rouhani]. This will result in the government having to face a challenging dilemma. First option: The president-elect can avoid increasing the prices of energy sources as required by the law. However, the law-abiding jurist-turned-president is unlikely to avoid implementing the law. Second option: He can abide by the law and suddenly increase the prices of energy sources by at least two-fold and also increase the prices of bread and other staple food items...But there is another option: He can honestly inform the people of the problems and provide real statistics - a measure expected from an honest and righteous government. [He can] ask the wise people of our country, from villagers to urban dwellers, to [voluntarily] stop receiving subsidies [monthly allowances provided to Iranian families under the subsidy reform plan] or give the government at least six months to pay their demands." (Editorial by Mohsen Bahrami Arz Aqdas, headlined: "The difference between two presidents")
Party interference in cabinet selection?
Hemayat [conservative]: "For the past few days, the issue of selecting the 11th cabinet has attracted the attention of political actors... Most people are waiting to see whom [President-elect Hassan] Rouhani will select. On the other hand, they [referring to political parties] have expressed willingness to provide the president-elect with advice about the cabinet... some have even proposed lists... It is worth pointing out that the president-elect has not asked any parties to give him lists... Some opine that our system is not a party system and thus parties have no influence on the selection of cabinet [members]; therefore, it is better that they not introduce their cabinet nominees. If they provide the president with a list, they will be accused of seeking representation [in the cabinet] and limiting the president." (Editorial by Mohammad Riza Rah Chemani headlined "Parties and cabinet")
Iran-UK ties
E'temand[ reformist]: "It seems that with the shock of the election of Dr Hassan Rouhani as the president of the Islamic Republic, a situation similar to the situation of 1376 [1997; when Mohammad Khatami became the reformist president of Iran] has been paved for the UK and Europe to use shock-therapy to normalize their ties with the Islamic Republic of Iran. The recent stances adopted by UK's former and current officials , such as the willingness of former British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw to visit Iran and [Current Foreign Secretary] William Hague's comments on improving ties with Iran, indicate that the UK wants to use this opportunity to normalize ties with the Islamic Republic of Iran. Earlier, France had also talked about the possibility of inviting President-elect [Hassan Rouhani] to participate in the Geneva-2 Conference [on Syria]. Therefore, it can be claimed that the official and non-official statements by British and European officials are a sign of the start of a diplomatic U-turn in Iran-UK and Iran-Europe ties under the moderate government [reference to Hassan Rouhani's government]." (Editorial by Seyyed Jalal Dehqani Ferozabadi headlined: "Therapeutic shock in Iran-UK ties")
Third Palestinian Intifada?
Resalat [conservative]: "US Secretary of State John Kerry is afraid of a third Palestinian Intifada (uprising). This comes at a time when Palestinians and resistance groups are willing to continue their resistance against the Zionist regime...The reality is that peace talks between the Zionist regime and the Palestinian Authority (PA) had failed from the very beginning. Not only are these talks not beneficial to the Palestinians, but they also deprive them of the opportunity to achieve their ideals and goals. Therefore, most Palestinians do not agree to the talks. On the other hand, Palestinians have reached the conclusion that they can meet their objectives through resistance. That's why [former Israeli PM Ehud] Olmert and [Israeli MP Shaul] Mofaz have expressed concern over the possibility of a third Palestinian Intifada, because the Third Intifada will be against the Zionist regimes' policies and measures." (Commentary by Ali Reza Sadiqi headlined "Kerry's fear of a third Intifada")
Egyptian army could end up as loser
Keyhan [hard-line]: "[The Egyptian] army claims to have arrived on the scene only for the sake of saving the country, but reliable news sources show that contrary to what has been said, there is a correlation between the growing number of people on Tahrir Square and the gradual appearance of the army... The Egyptian army has come out from the shadows. This can be considered an achievement for a strong Egyptian army which is repeating past experience. At the same time, such involvement carries serious risks for the army as well. In case the army is unable to establish stability in Egypt, it will end up being the biggest loser... If the army is unable to manage the situation in Egypt, it will not be able to control protests within the coming weeks or months, because time will run out for the army to effectively exert its authority over its opponents and because domestic and foreign powers will lose hope that the army can control the situation." (Commentary by Sadollah Zarei headlined : "Egyptian army winner or loser of the crisis?")
Syrian crisis to disrupt Iran-Turkey energy ties?
Sharq [reformist]: "One of the most important tasks the next president will have to take care of is the drafting of 'energy diplomacy' to prevent disagreements over foreign policy from having an impact on Iran's energy exports... Syria's domestic developments are considered one of the most important and possible disruptive factors in Iran-Turkey ties in the field of energy... In fact, Iran and Turkey's stances are considered as the two possible options for resolving the Syrian crisis; one [Turkey] believes in the overthrow of Bashar al-Asad as well as changing the existing political system and for this purpose, it has become the most important source for providing intelligence and military services support to Syrian opposition groups, while the other [Iran] believes in keeping Bashar al-Asad [in power] and [keeping] the existing system." (Commentary by Mansur Mo'azami headlined: "Difference and relationships")
Israel fears "democratic" Iran
Khorasan [conservative]: "You [Israeli PM Binyamin Netanyahu] and your overlord [USA] do not fear the atomic bomb, but rather fear a nation increasing in power which, by achieving 72 per cent voter turnout in an election that met standards higher than even those countries that claim to be the [champions] of democracy, has consciously elected their president in a free and transparent election... You cannot hide your domestic problems under the flag of Iranophobia this time... All the people, young and old, republic and president, are lions in the Islamic republic of Iran and the wolves [Israel] have felt the bite of the lions. If you are wise, which I doubt, then you should avoid standing against [Iran] otherwise you will feel the result." (Editorial by Gholam Reza Bani Asadi headlined "We are lions, Mr wolf!")
Zimmerman verdict
Jomhuri-ye Eslami [hard-line]: "A Florida jury has found George Zimmerman, the killer of black American teen Trayvon Martin, innocent... This decision has angered Americans, especially the blacks and has set off a wave of demonstrations in various states... His [Trayvon Martin's] death was the beginning of one of the most controversial court cases in the USA. Many people in the USA have accused the court and the country's legal system of racism and bias towards Zimmerman since he was white." (Commentary by News Service headlined "Massive protests in the US despite the acquittal of murderer of a black teen")
Sources: As listed
