Texas is welcome to the 19th century
Everyone knows that the state of Texas has a 19th-century outlook on human executions. Last week we discovered, despite Wendy Davis' valiant efforts, that Texas stubbornly clings to a 19th-century outlook toward women's health. Now Craig Carpenter (Letters, July 15) suggests California emulate Texas' 19th-century "drill, baby, drill" fossil fuel energy policy. 
Luckily for us, progressive California lives in the 21st century and we'll leave our big hats and Confederate flags in the history books and focus on clean, future-oriented energy technologies, thanks.
Terrance Hanna
Mountain View
Verdict was not a license to hunt
This is exactly what I was afraid of after Zimmerman verdict: Every misguided vigilante like Randall Fullner (Letters, July 16) now thinks it is their right to hunt down any shady character loitering in their neighborhood.
Vivek Shende
San Jose
Being nonwhite in a white neighborhood
Randall Fullner (Letters, July 16) writes that TrayvonMartin's actions were suspicious, and George Zimmerman had the right to protect his life. By suspicious I guess he means being a black teen walking through a white neighborhood.
We live in a gated, mostly white Los Gatos community. My kids are half Filipino, so they have darker skin, and occasionally wear sweatshirts with hoodies when it's cold. Their friends who come to visit are of many different races.
If everyone here practiced what Zimmerman did and Fullner advocates, we would have our neighbors shooting at them just for being what they are -- nonwhites in a white neighborhood.
Karen Rubio
Los Gatos
Appalled by verdict? Stay out of Florida
The police, city government, and judicial system in Florida gave George Zimmerman a "fair and legal" trial. If you want to change the culture that approves hunting down and killing unarmed black youths, take a lesson from South Africa. There an effective boycott changed long-term apartheid policies and led to a freer society. Visitors seeking entertainment should avoid Florida. Snowbirds and vacationers, seek sun and sandy beaches elsewhere. If you are appalled at the killing of TrayvonMartin, march and cry, "Boycott, Boycott, Boycott."
Many innocent South Africans were hurt by the worldwide boycott organized to bring down its former, racist government. A Florida boycott can work to avoid another such pitiful event in our country. Pray and march.
Robert Roth
Palo Alto
Put on your hazmat suit, head to Texas
The reader who claimed (Letters, July 15) that Texas' oil boom puts California to shame makes some interesting points. In fact, if I were him, I wouldn't wait any longer. I'd buy me a gun and a hazmat suit and move to Texas.
Andreas Goedde
San Jose
