There will be vigils and rallies in a hundred US cities this weekend to press for federal civil rights charges against George Zimmerman over the shooting death of unarmed teenager Trayvon Martin, the Rev Al Sharpton said. 
The prominent civil rights activist announced the plan at a news conference with several church ministers outside the Justice Department in Washington. He did not say which cities would be involved, but did say the rallies and vigils will be staged on Saturday at federal buildings. Zimmerman's acquittal over the weekend touched off protests around the country.
The trial of George Zimmerman has proved one of the most divisive in recent history in America and has triggered a fierce debate that has shaken the nation and threatens to redefine American cultural identity. What began as an issue of gun control and self-defence law soon morphed into one of race and class division as the country wrestles with issues on racial profiling and civil rights.
High profile celebrities are among those to speak out publicly about the verdict and the issues surrounding it.
Stevie Wonder is the latest to fuel the debate, saying he will not perform in Florida and other states with a "stand your ground" firearm self-defence law.
In a video posted on You-Tube, the 63-year-old singer said at a concert in Quebec City, Canada, on Sunday "that until the 'stand your ground' law is abolished in Florida, I will never perform there again".
Wonder added: "Wherever I find that law exists, I will not perform in that state or in that part of the world."
The "stand your ground" law allows people to use deadly force if they believe their life is in danger. George Zimmerman said he fired in self-defence during his trial.
Meanwhile, CNN reported last night that three of the six jurors in the George Zimmerman trial believed that he was guilty of murder or manslaughter when they retired to consider their verdict, one of the all-female panel admitted during a broadcast interview with the TV channel.
Her comments will stoke further controversy after she described how jurors found the laws very confusing and struggled to follow the judge''s instructions.
A jury acquitted Zimmerman of second-degree murder and manslaughter charges on Saturday.
The Justice Department is investigating whether he violated the black teenager's civil rights when he shot the 17-year-old during a confrontation in Sanford, Florida, in February last year.
The neighbourhood watch volunteer, 29, said he fired his gun in self-defence, and a sixmember jury acquitted him of second-degree murder and manslaughter charges.
Mr Sharpton was speaking after violence erupted on the West Coast during protests over the acquittal.
Los Angeles police said about 150 people broke off from a larger, peaceful protest and began walking through the streets, committing multiple acts of vandalism and several assaults.
More than 300 officers were called to the scene but they held back from directly engaging with the protesters in an attempt to allow a peaceful end to the demonstration.
Thirteen people were arrested and officers warned they would adopt a much stricter stance if the protests continued for another night.
At least one person was injured and police made nine arrests when another protest turned violent in Oakland.
