By the early hours of Monday morning, the last of those who had gathered to protest against the verdict of the TrayvonMartin murder case had still not exhausted their sense of outrage. 
What began as a heavily attended demonstration in Union Square on Sunday afternoon freewheeled into a gathering of thousands of concerned citizens in Times Square, 3km away, before several groups began making their way to the Adam Clayton Powell memorial in Harlem, chanting "Justice for Trayvon" as they marched.
"This is about solidarity - all races and all creeds turned out today," said Daniel Alexander, who carried a sign bearing the victim's name.
ArrestsSeveral arrests were made as the disparate groups made their way uptown, chanting as they marched through the privileged sections of Park Avenue and the Upper East Side. When they reached 125th street in Harlem, drivers honked their horns and locals sitting on the steps of their brownstones trying to keep cool in the midnight heat applauded. 
"You really feel that TrayvonMartin suffered two deaths when he was killed," Danny Maree, from the East Village, said.
"One came from George Zimmerman's gun and the second from the justice department when they failed to arrest anyone. That is institutionalised racism."
Police and media helicopters hovered over the Harlem high-rises as the march wound on. The police presence was heavy but restrained and led to  conversations about contentious stop-and-frisk policy, perceived as a low-grade harassment which the death of TrayvonMartin   starkly illuminated.
Gentrified"This area is becoming gentrified
. New people are moving in," said Daniel Alexander. "So if you are new here, you can see how police will treat people of colour. I have been stopped, I've been frisked.  "In New York that has become a natural occurrence in life and that is the sad part. It is not just a black and white thing necessarily."
At about 12.30am, after a brief rally on the corner of Malcolm X boulevard and 148th Street, the marchers moved  towards the Bronx.
