Race still has enormous power to divide Americans. In the TrayvonMartin case, there is deep disagreement over whether race played a role and, if it did, how it affected events from the time George Zimmerman spotted Mr. Martin on Feb. 26 of last year to Saturday's acquittal. 
No one has proved that Mr. Zimmerman targeted Mr. Martin because of race. No one has proved that Seminole County prosecutors were reluctant to charge Mr. Zimmerman because the death of a black youth by a white man was of less concern than the shooting of a white victim would have been. No one has proved that the sloppy initial police investigation resulted from disregard for a black victim. No one has shown that Florida's misguided "stand your ground" law, which at first gave police and prosecutors cover to do nothing, is more likely to be invoked when the shooter is white and the victim is black. No one has proved that the six jurors have stereotypical views about young black males who wear hoodies.
But if such issues did not dominate during testimony, they have made a strong circumstantial case from the start. They show that the debate about race in America continues to be intense. They show that Americans, even after re-electing a black president, must face this issue. Racism, real or perceived, can undermine faith in justice. In the worst case, it can subvert justice.
The Internet seethes with comments on Mr. Zimmerman's acquittal. He can't be a racist because he's part Hispanic. He can't be innocent because he's white and killed a black child. The state suppressed evidence that would show Mr. Zimmerman used racial epithets to describe Mr. Martin. The state charged Mr. Zimmerman only because of undue pressure from black agitators.
Not all such comments are from anonymous, online posts. Zimmerman defense attorney Mark O'Mara claimed, ludicrously, that his client "never would have been charged with a crime" if he were black. Benjamin Crump, an attorney for the Martin family, compared this case to the 1955 lynching in Mississippi of Emmett Till, a 14-year-old black boy whose murderers said he had whistled at a white woman.
Even if it is impossible to say with certainty that racism triggered any single link in the chain of events that ended with TrayvonMartin dead and George Zimmerman acquitted, we think the conclusion is inescapable that race played a role. Put yourself in the place of TrayvonMartin's parents. What if it had been your child, unarmed and walking home from the store? Would you believe that justice has been achieved if the armed man who provoked the fatal confrontation had gotten off?
Mr. Zimmerman, his family and defense team hope his days as a defendant are over. Perhaps they will be. That will depend on whether Mr. Martin's family decides to file a civil suit and whether the Justice Department decides to pursue a civil rights prosecution. It is certain that the debate about race must not be over. Shouting about race won't help close the divide. Talking about race might.
Jac Wilder VerSteeg for The Post Editorial Board
