Citing a potential conflict of interest on the part of the Novato Police Department, supporters of Chaka Grayson   the Marin City man shot by a sheriff's deputy after a confrontation during a traffic stop   called for another agency to investigate the incident.
Meanwhile, Grayson was expected to be released from jail Wednesday evening, pending further investigation of the case, officials said. 
At a press conference Wednesday in Marin City, supporters raised concerns about Novato police handling the criminal investigation. The wife of Deputy Evan Kubota, who fired the shots, works as a dispatcher for Novato police.
"It's a big conflict of interest," said the Rev. Emmanuel Akognon of Village Baptist Church, where Grayson is a member. "I believe this investigation is starting on the wrong foot."
Grayson's supporters would rather see another police agency or the state handle the investigation.
"There are many police departments that can take this on," said Jonathan Matthews, a church member and attorney who fielded questions during the 30-minute press conference.
Novato police officials could not be reached for comment. District Attorney Ed Berberian dismissed the idea of a conflict, saying that Novato police are "professionals who will do their job" regardless of the connection Kubota has with the department. He added that his office ultimately files charges, not the investigators.
Almost 100 people gathered at the church to get an update on the case, which has touched a raw nerve in the community that has a strained relationship with law enforcement.
"The Chaka shooting and other recent events have really hit a nerve, it's almost like the clock has been turned back," Matthews said. "This shooting is emblematic of a problem between the police and the community that has gone on way too long."
Grayson   who was shot twice in the arm during the July 7 incident   was being held at the Marin County Jail on a parole violation, but was not formally charged. Late Wednesday afternoon, Berberian announced the parole hold was being lifted.
"The investigation surrounding the circumstances of the shooting is ongoing and it would be premature to move forward with any criminal-related filings until that investigation is completed," said Berberian, adding he expected Grayson to be released Wednesday evening.
While Grayson has had problems with the law in the past, supporters said he was turning his life around and had completed construction training and apprenticeship programs while becoming a member of the church.
The incident began at about 5:50 p.m., when Kubota was on patrol along Terners Drive in Marin City. The deputy saw Grayson, whom he suspected of driving on a suspended driver's license, and made a U-turn and pulled in perpendicular behind Grayson's vehicle. There was a second vehicle parked in front of Grayson as well, according to an eyewitness report.
As the deputy got out of his patrol car, he noticed that Grayson ducked down as he approached. The deputy drew his firearm and ordered Grayson to show his hands. Instead, Grayson accelerated his vehicle toward the deputy, who believed his life was at risk and fired toward Grayson, according to the sheriff's office.
An eyewitness has said Grayson pulled his car out by only a foot or so when the deputy began firing and that it didn't appear that Kubota was in danger.
"There needs to be a community response," said Makini Hassan, executive director of the Marin City Community Development Corp., who helped mentor Grayson. "Chaka is our Trayvon Martin. Chaka is our Oscar Grant."
Contact Mark Prado via email atmprado@marinij.com
