Just about every aspect of why and how George Zimmerman came to fatally shoot an unarmed teenager on Feb. 26, 2012, is open for debate.
But one conclusion ought to be obvious: If Zimmerman had not been carrying a gun that night, Trayvon Martin would be alive today. 
An unarmed Zimmerman probably would have heeded police advice to stay in his truck after seeing someone he believed was "up to no good." And even if the neighborhood watch volunteer had left the vehicle, his altercation with Martin is unlikely to have turned deadly if a firearm had not been involved.
Viewed from that perspective, the Zimmerman case is a byproduct of a  society that in the past three decades has made it easier for people to buy guns, to carry concealed guns, to take guns into more places, and to bear less responsibility to retreat from dangerous situations.
In 1981, 19 states prohibited people from carrying a hidden weapon in public. And 28 states granted law enforcement the discretion to issue permits based on guidelines set by each state.
But a powerful gun lobby has turned that system upside down. Today in most states it's relatively easy to get a concealed carry permit. In 2011, Wyoming became the fourth state -- joining Alaska, Arizona and Vermont -- to allow concealed firearms, no permit needed.
In 35 states, authorities must issue permits to just about any adult who seeks one, with limited exceptions such as a felony. In some states, if local police know that an applicant has made trouble in his neighborhood, has a drinking problem or has been arrested for a string of minor crimes, no matter. If the crime isn't on a prohibited list, authorities must issue that permit.
There's no question that people have a constitutional right to bear arms, but the gun lobby has pushed its "guns everywhere" agenda to absurd extremes. As of two years ago, a dozen states allowed hidden guns in bars, places of worship, state parks and on college campuses.
Bars? Do we even need to debate that one? Nor do you need a Ph.D. to understand that letting college students pack heat on campus -- where binge drinking, drug taking and immature judgment are common -- is likely to cost more lives than the guns save.
Add to this volatile mix the rush by nearly half the states, led by Florida in 2005, to pass self-defense laws -- described as "stand your ground" by supporters and "shoot first" by critics -- and you've got another ingredient in the recipe for disaster.
Neighborhood Watch, which Zimmerman coordinated for his community, is one of the few places where, no matter the state, participants are warned against carrying a weapon. The program, created by the National Sheriffs' Association, advises in its training manual that members "shall not carry weapons" and should never do more than observe and call police.
That's wise advice, which, if heeded, would have averted a needless tragedy one rainy night in Sanford, Fla. 
