Race issues overwhelmed Zimmerman trial
After hearing all the evidence and watching all the witnesses give their testimony, the jury in the trial of George Zimmerman for shooting and killing TrayvonMartin came in with a not guilty verdict.
Many trial attorneys, with the exception of Florida's prosecuting attorneys, not only agreed with the jury but thought this case would never have come to trial had it not become political, influenced by the usual race issue proponents such as Al Sharpton.
Even our African-American President Barack Obama found it necessary to announce to the nation that "If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon." 
I could be wrong, but it doesn't look like there will be rioting despite the anger and disappointment shown by some, including the leadership of the NAACP.
One way of nipping that in the bud would be for Obama to invite Martin's parents and Zimmerman to the White House to bare their hearts about the tragedy that this case represented.
- Ernie Pellegrino, Middleton
How 'stand your ground' and juries really work
Are some lives worth less than others? George Zimmerman, a white male, shot and killed unarmed African-American teenager TrayvonMartin, and a jury found him not guilty.
In Florida in 2012, Marissa Alexander, an African-American woman confronted by her allegedly abusive husband, fired a warning shot into the wall at her home to ward him off. She invoked Florida's "stand your ground" law but was convicted of aggravated assault and sentenced to 20 years in prison.
"Stand your ground" works only if you're white. "Jury of your peers" works only if you have highly paid lawyers.
Health care works only if you're well off. Control of your body works only if you're male. Job creation works only if you're the employer. Elections work only if you're a corporation. Private education works only if you're not disabled. Soon, public education will not work at all.
And now, we have David Koch's "economic freedom" TV ad telling us to be grateful for a $34,000 annual salary. This from a man worth $43 billion who extols economic freedom while shaming us for wanting it.
Economic freedom works only if you already have it. And, if you haven't got economic freedom, a corporate logo, white skin, and aren't a man, your life is worth less.
- Sheila Plotkin, McFarland
Focus on trials with substance, like Manning's
The American public has once again been swept up in a public trial monsoon. At least the trial and acquittal of George Zimmerman has had some larger social and legal relevance that might justify the over-the-top news coverage.
In contrast, a current trial has been practically blacked out by the mainstream media - the trial of Bradley Manning for his leaking of government and military secrets to Wikileaks.
I admire Manning for his bravery in bringing horrible but necessary truths to light. I also feel sympathy for Manning for being victimized, first by childhood bullies and then by cruel and unusual treatment, including months of solitary confinement, after his arrest.
The Manning trial has been conducted in secrecy, some caused by the conditions of a military trial, but more because of journalistic complicity. The public shares in the blame. Political trials lack the sexiness of murder trials.
We are doomed, I fear, to be fed a constant diet of murder trials while more important trials (and issues) will be ignored.
Aldous Huxley's "Brave New World" envisions a society amusing itself to death. Our own cultural preference for entertainment over substance shows Huxley was sadly prophetic.
- George Savage, Madison
Community must prepare for climate change
On July 10 I attended a forum on climate change preparedness, organized by Dane County Executive Joe Parisi. It is gratifying to have a political leader who is thinking ahead, planning for challenges that a changing climate will bring.
Attendees learned we can expect wetter, warmer winters, more intense storms, and more summer days above 90 degrees.
Dane County departments have brainstormed about how these conditions will affect their work and what they can do to be ready for weather-related emergencies. But citizens should not just assume the authorities will deal with the problems.
Neighborhood groups should discuss what residents can do to protect the vulnerable during heat waves and floods and the power outages and water contamination that can result from floods. An organized, prepared citizenry can help emergency personnel. Let's start the discussions, workshops and activities now to preserve lives later.
These events also teach us how to limit our carbon footprints while creating community bonds. Fossil fuels use got us into this situation, and we need to wean ourselves from them.
The county executive's third forum will be held Wednesday from 6-7:30 p.m. at the Middleton Public Library, 7425 Hubbard Ave.
- Phyllis Hasbrouck, town of Dunn
