The Rev. Jesse Jackson had a jailhouse meeting with Marissa Alexander in Jacksonville Tuesday, then followed it with an appeal to State Attorney Angela Corey to use her influence in getting the 32-year-old woman's 20-year mandatory sentence reduced.
Jackson spent an hour in the morning with Alexander, who was sentenced in a case in which she said she was only guarding herself from an abusive husband. 
Her case has regained attention following George Zimmerman's acquittal of all charges in 17-year-old Trayvon Martin's death, which was deemed self-defense.
"There is something patently unjust about this," Jackson said in front of the Duval County jail after meeting Alexander. "A woman was not guilty of shooting or killing anyone is in jail for 20 years. A man who did kill someone is walking free. The gap is too great."
Later, he spoke with Corey and made what he called a "moral appeal" for her support in getting the sentence changed.
He said Corey listened during their phone conversation but said the case and mandatory sentence had been determined by the jury.
"She says it is out of her jurisdiction," Jackson said.
Calls for comment to spokeswoman Jackelyn Barnard of the State Attorney's Office were not returned Tuesday.
Alexander refused prosecutors' offer of three years in prison following her arrest in 2010 on three charges of aggravated assault for firing the gun. She was found guilty and given a state-mandated 20 years that took the discretion out of the judge's hands.
Jackson said if the state once offered Alexander three years, Corey should consider that.
"If she doesn't think she deserves 20 years, she should say that," he said.
Alexander has already been in jail almost three years, Jackson said.
"At least I made our case on a moral appeal," he said.
Surrounded by pastors after meeting Alexander, Jackson said he will be at a 5 p.m. rally Wednesday at Mount Olive Primitive Baptist Church at 1319 N. Myrtle Ave. to highlight her case and mobilize public opinion. He said the Rainbow Push Coalition, which advocates for civil rights, will continue to work on Alexander's case.
"The whole world is watching Marissa Alexander's case now," he said.
He and Alexander did not meet in her cell but in another room at the jail, he said.
"She is amazingly strong and sound and clear in her thinking and with a very strong and dedicated prayer life," he said. "She is overwhelmed by the idea of facing 20 years in jail, perhaps in prison, and has done no one any harm."
Jackson said the Alexander and Zimmerman cases are examples of failures in the justice system.
"We see radical racial polarization in the judicial system," he said. "That's a cause of great concern."
Alexander was sentenced for firing what she and her supporters have called a warning shot against an abusive husband. It was mandatory under the "10-20-Life" statute. Two young children were in the vicinity at the time, according to the arrest report.
New York domestic abuse attorney Michael Dowd agreed to take over Alexander's case as it heads into an appeal. Tuesday, Dowd said the appeal has been filed and attorneys are waiting to be told if oral arguments will be needed.
"First and foremost, the case was overcharged," Dowd said in a phone call to his office. He said the results were out of proportion to how the case should have been resolved and agreed with Jackson's efforts at a resolution outside the courts.
"I would think anything he could do to lessen or do something about the sentence would be a good thing, better than a good thing, a great thing," he said.
Dana Treen: (904) 359-4091
