An editoial from the San Jose (Calif.) Mercury:
The peaceful protests in the wake of George Zimmerman's acquittal should not dissolve into complacency.
They should inspire renewed activism in the U.S. to change gun laws and societal attitudes so that armed confrontations are not encouraged, as they are today in places like Florida, and so that people who end up shooting and killing unarmed individuals have some responsibility if their own actions brought on the confrontation. 
We say peaceful protests because the violence and destruction committed by small numbers of protesters - vandals, really - in Oakland and other cities have no political legitimacy. Anger over Trayvon Martin's death is understandable, but the impulse to destroy property and attack blameless individuals is never justified. The peaceful marchers and the millions more Americans who had visceral reactions to this case are the ones capable of productive action.
They are, consciously or not, on common ground with former congresswoman Gabby Giffords and others fighting for sensible gun laws and sensible attitudes toward gun violence. The toll it takes nationwide, with murder rates rising after decades of decline, makes it a major public health threat of our day. Its victims disproportionately are young men of colour - often dying at the hands of others of the same race. While the Martin case aroused outrage because it began as racial profiling, the other deaths too often are shrugged off. That is wrong.
Zimmerman's gun changed the dynamic on that fateful night. Calling 911 to report the suspicious character - Martin was walking at night while black and wearing a hoodie - Zimmerman was told not to pursue him. Surely he would have heeded that instruction had he not felt the invincibility of carrying a firearm in a state that glorifies the right to kill rather than avoid a fight.
This is the societal effect of stand-your-ground laws passed by Florida and some 20 other states.
Martin was upset at being followed. He may well have jumped Zimmerman in a fit of stupid male teenage machismo. But if Zimmerman had done what he'd been told to do, no one would have been hurt.
This case has to reinforce the fears of black families. They need to teach their children not only to obey the law but also how to behave so as not to raise suspicions.
What if a black man in a hoodie had decided a white teenager walking in his neighbourhood looked suspicious? What if police told him not to follow the kid but he did anyway? And what if, when the white kid attacked him, he pulled a gun and shot him - really, does anyone think that black man would not have been immediately arrested? Wouldn't police have looked at why he stalked the kid in the first place? Didn't the teenager have reason to be afraid?
Martin will leave a legacy if this trial inspires more Americans to look critically at their gun laws and the behaviour they encourage. Behaviour like that of George Zimmerman. Criminal or not.
