As the father of a teenage boy who sometimes wears a hoodie and sometimes ventures out for sweets and a soft drink, I can instantly relate to the parents of TrayvonMartin.
As someone who doesn't own a gun, lives on a street with no gate, and confines my neighborhood watch activities mostly to chasing off raccoons delving into the next door neighbour's garbage - as was the case last night - I have a harder time relating to George Zimmerman.
That said, I am not in the least surprised that Zimmerman was acquitted by a Florida jury of six women in the shooting of TrayvonMartin.
There was always going to be reasonable doubt because there was no decisive eyewitness, no video and, most critically, the law was on the side of the man with the gun, not the kid with the skittles candies and iced tea.
That's the way it is in Florida. That's the way it is in a lot of states.
As it happened, on the day that the jury came out with the not guilty verdict - on charges of murder in the second degree and manslaughter - I was standing at a grill at a barbecue talking turkey, and guns, with an FBI agent.
Interestingly, this agent does not keep a gun at his home in Virginia, though he would be more than qualified to do so.
He explained that if I was a burglar in Virginia with one foot inside his home, and he did in fact have a gun, he would be required to first challenge me.
If I did not surrender or retreat, if I put my second foot into his home, he would be within his rights to shoot me.
Down in Mississippi, he said, I would only have to put a foot on the property and he could blaze away.
TrayvonMartin was not on George Zimmerman's property. He was on a street in a gated community where he was staying. As such, he had just as much right to be there as Zimmerman.
Zimmerman's defence, however, rested heavily on Florida's "stand your ground" law, which did confer effective property rights at the spot where Zimmerman stood when he first challenged 17-year-old Martin.
This law, then, means that every space is "your" space when you feel threatened, as much as your kitchen or bedroom.
And you only have to have a reasonable fear that the other person is threatening you to reach for your weapon.
Given the fact that the gun laws in Florida, Virginia, Mississippi, and a bundle of other states, are so farcically lax that Genghis Khan would qualify for an assault rifle, or indeed a truck load of them, it is no surprise at all that there are a lot of people walking around the place who might claim to be reasonably fearful for their lives.
After all, it's the guy in the hoodie who could easily have a gun.
So there is a perverse logic to all this, one that is eerily reflected in the dystopia envisioned by the National Rifle Association: everyone should be packing.
Perhaps if TrayvonMartin had been carrying a gun things would have worked out differently.
Maybe there would have been two dead people, a complete mystery with regard to what happened that night, and the taxpayer would have been saved the expense of a trial.
The NRA has been kind of quiet on this one because, of course, it's tried and tested argument is that the victim dies because he/she is not armed.
Ergo, TrayvonMartin should have been carrying too.
This case, is actually trickier for the NRA to comment on than, say, a mass slaughter of kids in a school by a gun-toting nut. So best say nothing.
"We should ask ourselves," said President Obama, "if we're doing all we can to stem the tide of gun violence that claims too many lives across this country on a daily basis. We should ask ourselves, as individuals and as a society, how we can prevent future tragedies like this. As citizens, that's a job for all of us. That's the way to honour TrayvonMartin."
How to prevent future tragedies like this? Well good luck with that.
In order to prevent another TrayvonMartin you would have to put the actual law on trial, not the likes of George Zimmerman, an armed idiot who didn't even know the people who were inhabiting the neighbourhood he was supposedly watching.
