ONE OF the six jurors who acquitted George Zimmerman sparked outrage Monday night, saying race played no role in the fatal shooting of Travyon Martin and making comments that suggested a bias toward black people.
Juror B37, who had tried to peddle a book about the trial that transfixed America until pulling back on that late Monday, came under fire on social media and beyond after she expressed loads of sympathy for Zimmerman and little for Trayvon during an interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper.
"I think George Zimmerman is a man whose heart was in the right place, but just got displaced by the vandalism in the neighborhoods, and wanting to catch these people so badly, that he went above and beyond what he really should have done," the woman said, speaking from behind a shadow to hide her identity.
"His heart was in the right place. It just went terribly wrong," Juror B37 added. 
The juror, who when asked to describe Trayvon during a pre-trail interview called the 17-year-old "a boy of color," acknowledged on CNN that Zimmerman should have stayed in his car rather than follow the unarmed teen.
But the first member of the all-female panel to speak out after Saturday's verdict said the jury decided to clear the 29-year-old neighborhood watch volunteer because they believed Zimmerman feared for his life moments before the killing.
Juror B37 had "no doubt" in her mind about that, she said.
She told Cooper she "was sure" the voice heard screaming for help on a 911 tape was the man carrying a handgun, not the high school student who was shot to death.
She said it was Trayvon - not Zimmerman - who must have struck the first blow in February 2012 in a gated community outside Orlando. "I feel sorry for both of them," the juror said. "I feel sorry for Trayvon, in the situation he was in. And I feel sorry for George because of the situation he got himself in."
That didn't go over too well on Twitter.
"Juror B37 says she feels bad for both of them? Um, there's only ONE, now," Twitter user Brooks Baptiste posted.
The shooting has inspired furious debate over gun rights and race relations for a year and a half, with protesters marching through Manhattan Sunday to decry the lack of justice for black victims.
But Juror B37 said in the CNN interview that she thinks Zimmerman would have "reacted the exact same way" had Trayvon been "Spanish, white, Asian."
But she made at least one statement on "Anderson Cooper 360" that could have been construed as racist.
The host asked her about testimony that Trayvon used the phrase "creepy-ass cracker" to describe Zimmerman, 29, after the older man started to follow him.
"I don't think it's really racial. I think it's just the everyday life, the type of life that they live, and how they're living, in the environment that they're living in," she told Cooper, using "they" to refer to black people, specifically Trayvon and a female friend of his who testified during the Zimmerman trial about being on the phone with him just before the fight.
The remark infuriated some on Twitter.
"Juror B37 is a racist," user Rae-Ann Newallo wrote. "That's how 'they' talk? Now I understand why Zimmerman got off. That jury was . . . a bunch of racists."
Juror B37, a white woman who is the daughter of an Air Force captain and volunteers rescuing animals, said the jury relied partly on Florida's "stand your ground" law that allows people to defend themselves with force when confronted.
She said she was moved by testimony from Sanford, Fla., cop Chris Serino, who said he thought Zimmerman - who never took the stand - had told the truth.
Serino told federal agents Zimmerman was "overzealous" and emboldened by a "little hero complex" - but not racist, according to an FBI report posted on The Smoking Gun website Monday.
During an interview with the feds, Serino said he'd found no evidence that the incident between the watchman and Trayvon was motivated by race. "Zimmerman's actions were not based on Trayvon's skin color, (but) rather based on his attire, the total circumstances of the encounter and the previous burglary suspects in the community," the agents wrote in a report dated March 5, 2012.
Race was not a topic of discussion at any point during deliberations, Juror B37 said.
The juror, her voice breaking with emotion at one point, said Trayvon was partly to blame for his own death. "I think both were responsible for the situation they had gotten themselves into, she said.
"I think both of them could have walked away. It just didn't happen."
Twitter users were furious at that comment, noting that Zimmerman followed Trayvon.
It was not inevitable that Zimmerman would be cleared at trial and set free, she said.
When the panel started deliberations, three jurors were ready to to vote for acquittal, two were leaning toward a manslaughter verdict and one wanted second-degree murder.
Juror B37 said "a couple" jurors were initially determined to find Zimmerman "guilty of something."
But after struggling to understand instructions that Juror B37 called "confusing," they reached a consensus.
"I want people to know that we put everything into everything to get this verdict," the woman said.
Immediately after the spot, the witness who testified about Trayvon calling Zimmerman a "creepy-ass cracker" appeared live on CNN's "Piers Morgan Tonight."
Rachel Jeantel, 19, was battered in the witness box by defense lawyer Don West and ridiculed by many for her halting answers. She seemed more confident Monday.
Jeantel called the verdict "B.S." and said Zimmerman approached Trayvon because he was black. "It was racial," said Jeantel. "Let's be honest. Racial. If he were white, if Trayvon was white and he had a hoodie on, what would happen?"
On TrayvonMartin
(He's) a boy of color."
On George Zimmerman
"I think George Zimmerman is a man whose heart was in the right place, but just got displaced by the vandalism in the neighborhoods, and wanting to catch these people so badly, that he went above and beyond what he really should have done."
On whether Zimmerman racially profiled Trayvon
"I don't think he did. I think just circumstances caused George to think that he might be a robber, or trying to do something bad in the neighborhood."
On whether she thought race played a role in the case
"I don't think it did. I think if there was another person - Spanish, white, Asian - if they came in the same situation where Trayvon was, I think George would have reacted the exact same way."
On what she thought of the phrase "creepy-ass cracker" - used by witness Rachel Jeantel
"I think Trayvon probably said that ... I don't think it's really racial. I think it's just everyday life, the type of life that they live, and how they're living, in the environment that they're living in."
