TrayvonMartin, an unarmed, 17-year-old black youth, was profiled, pursued and killed by an armed civilian. Shortly after, the Urban League of Palm Beach County marched in protest, demanding justice for Trayvon. It has taken more than a year, but the criminal justice system has rendered a not-guilty verdict, one that we all must respect.
We ask that in the wake of this verdict you continue to pray and hope for continued healing for the Martin family and all who mourn his death. Also, we are urging the residents of Palm Beach County and citizens throughout Florida to remain peaceful. Our energy should be directed toward the improvement and safety of our neighborhoods.
The verdict has given us another challenge to overcome with our youth. How will it affect them directly and indirectly? What do we tell and teach them with regard to this case and its outcome? We will continue to work tirelessly in our community to address these and other needs of our youth through education, awareness and exposure to issues affecting their lives. We will help to shape the conversation with our young men and women on how to safely engage with an individual or group in a wide variety of circumstances that involve civilians and law enforcement. 
While we respect the verdict of our justice system, as this case was tried based on current law, our resources will be focused on working with the Florida Legislature to revise or repeal Florida's self-defense and "stand your ground" laws. It is a travesty that George Zimmerman was not held accountable for his actions. And while it seems as though justice took the night off for TrayvonMartin, we must place our efforts on making sure that it doesn't take the night off for another innocent youth.
PATRICK J. FRANKLIN
West Palm Beach
Editor's note: Patrick J. Franklin is president and CEO of the Urban League of Palm Beach County.
Shooter showed hatred, anger
We are living in an America where good is now "evil" and evil is considered "good." I thought the O.J. Simpson jurors were dishonest. Then we had the Casey Anthony jurors, and now the latest disgrace of the American judicial system in the George Zimmerman verdict. This man's own words should have been more than enough to convict him. He clearly showed hatred and uncontrolled anger toward TrayvonMartin.
DAVE MITCHELL
North Palm Beach
Zimmerman provoked incident
A young boy is dead because another man was able to patrol the streets and take the law into his own hands. George Zimmerman acted as judge and jury on the night that he encountered TrayvonMartin coming from a store.
Would he have made that decision if he was not armed? What made him think he was capable of handling the situation? Why was he carrying a gun if he had no intention of using the weapon? The verdict took into account reasonable doubt. The one thing that cannot be doubted is that Mr. Zimmerman precipitated this incident by not listening to the police dispatcher and stalking TrayvonMartin. And within the context of the "stand your ground" law, he was able to provoke this confrontation.
TrayvonMartin would be alive today if George Zimmerman had not followed him. It will now be possible for people to claim self-defense even if they provoke a situation creating the need for self-defense.
MARILYN GINSBURG
Lake Worth
Does law apply only to survivor?
Does "stand your ground" apply only to the person with the gun? Does the unarmed person have a right to defend himself?
TrayvonMartin was walking home from a convenience store. George Zimmerman felt suspicious of this black teenager and followed him in his car. He called the police, who took note and asked Mr. Zimmerman to stand down and stop following him. Mr. Zimmerman continued to follow Mr. Martin. Then he stopped the car, got out and approached Mr. Martin.
Who is threatening whom? Wouldn't any of us feel threatened if someone followed us in a car, then stopped it, got out and approached us? TrayvonMartin could have tried to run. Perhaps he chose to stand his ground and respond to Mr. Zimmerman's threat with his bare hands. He cannot tell us his side of the story. Mr. Zimmerman lives to tell the tale.
"Self-defense" or "stand your ground" is much easier if you have the gun and the other person is unarmed. Maybe "stand your ground" applies only to the survivor. Especially if he is armed.
SHIRLEY Y. HERMAN
West Palm Beach
System was rigged against Martin
Before "stand your ground," George Zimmerman could not have ignored police warnings, chased after TrayvonMartin -- who was doing nothing other than walking home -- shot Trayvon during an argument and then claimed self-defense.
Clearly, the jury struggled with this case for 16 hours. But the jury instructions from the court forced the jurors to consider "stand your ground" rules and narrow their focus to the moments just before George Zimmerman pulled the trigger, ignoring the fact that George Zimmerman started the fateful series of events.
The news media demand that we accept and respect the jury's verdict, knowing all the while that the system was rigged against TrayvonMartin. The sad message is that the police, the court system and our state prosecutors cannot protect our children from people like George Zimmerman. The "stand your ground" law was not the result of citizen demand but rather a corporate effort through such groups as the National Rifle Association and the American Legislative Exchange Council. We as a nation must break the stranglehold that these groups have on our legislators, or be prepared to buy a lot more guns.
DAN SPOTTS
Ocean Ridge
Apply racial clarity to President Obama
In Tuesday's front page article "Holder: Justice will follow facts, laws," it was stated: "... Zimmerman, who is white and Hispanic... ." From now on, I hope to see, in the spirit of fair, honest and accurate reporting, President Obama described as white and African-American.
MARILYN CANIS
Palm Beach Gardens
Zimmerman has black heritage
The media, in their constant description of TrayvonMartin as black, seem to forget that George Zimmerman is as Hispanic as President Barack Obama is black. In fact, given Mr. Zimmerman's Afro-Peruvian maternal great-grandfather, under the one-drop rule Mr. Zimmerman is black.
RICHARD HANDELSMAN
West Palm Beach
Reasonable doubt led to acquittal
George Zimmerman's acquittal does not indicate that nothing went wrong on the night of TrayvonMartin's death. Everything went wrong. A 17-year-old boy should make it home after going out to buy Skittles, and feelings of sadness toward the outcome of the trial are reasonable. But the doubt surrounding the precise series of events was reasonable, and a second injustice would not rectify a first.
BEN GERMANO
Jupiter
Where was outrage in Simpson case?
The African-American community will not let go until George Zimmerman is lynched. I call their attention to the not-guilty verdict of O.J. Simpson, who beyond a doubt snuffed out two lives. Where were the African-American riots then? We had a black man accused of killing two white people vs. a Hispanic who was accused of second-degree murder and also found not guilty. Where's the justice and reason to riot or not to riot?
BILL THOMAS
Boynton Beach
Sorry, but Martin wasn't just 'a child'
Your editorial "No definition of justice" stated that TrayvonMartin "was a child." This "child" was in Sanford because he was suspended from high school. Marijuana residue was found in his backpack.
It seems that The Post Editorial Board and I were watching different cases. I understood the facts, and you heard what you wanted to hear. Your paper keeps coming back to the fact that if George Zimmerman never got out of the truck none of this would have happened. Actually, had TrayvonMartin been a decent student and hadn't been suspended, he would never have been in Sanford. Your "child" was no child.
WILLIAM J. QUINN JR.
Royal Palm Beach
