The Brattleboro Reformer has many colleagues around the country producing news for our "sister" papers. The Daily DFM is a "top picks" of today's national news. Consider it a collection of "things you should know, today."
1.Watch the protests over the George Zimmerman verdict (video) By Julie WestfallDigital First Media
(via NowThisNews)
A jury found George Zimmerman not guilty of murdering Florida teen Trayvon Martin over the weekend, and within hours, protests popped up in many major cities and continued through the next day. They turned violent at times in California -in Oakland windows were broken and trash cans set on fire. And in Los Angeles, there were seven arrests and protestersblocked the Interstate 10 freeway for a time. Thousands of peoplemarched through Times Square in protest of the verdict.2.Robots to revolutionize farming, ease labor woes By Gosia Wozniacka and Terence Chea, Associated Press 
In this May 23, 2013, photo, the lettuce bot is dragged by a tractor during tests in Salinas, Calif. In the Salinas Valley, the lettuce capital of the world, entrepreneurs with the Silicon Valley company Blue River Technology are testing the Lettuce Bot, a boxy robotic machine that can thin fields of lettuce, a job that now requires detailed hand work by 20 farm workers. (AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez)
SALINAS, Calif. -- On a windy morning in California's Salinas Valley, a tractor pulled a wheeled, refrigerator-sized contraption over rows of budding iceberg lettuce plants. Engineers from Silicon Valley tinkered with the software on a laptop to ensure the machine was eliminating the right leafy buds.
Hired by a Salinas-based agricultural produce company, the engineers were testing the Lettuce Bot, a machine that can "thin" a field of lettuce in the time it takes about 20 workers to do the job by hand.
The thinner is part of a new generation of machines that target the last frontier of agricultural mechanization -- fruits and vegetables destined for the fresh market, not processing, which have thus far resisted mechanization because they're sensitive to bruising.
Researchers are now designing robots for these most delicate crops by integrating advanced sensors, powerful computing, electronics, computer vision, robotic hardware and algorithms, as well as networking and high precision GPS localization technologies. Most ag robots won't be commercially available for at least a few years.
In this region known as America's Salad Bowl, where for a century fruits and vegetables have been planted, thinned and harvested by an army of migrant workers, the machines could prove revolutionary.
Though they cost millions of dollars, farmers say, the robots are worth the investment: They could provide relief from recent labor shortages,lessen the unknowns
of immigration reform, even reduce costs, increase quality and yield a more consistent product.
"There aren't enough workers to take the available jobs, so the robots can come and alleviate some of that problem," said Ron Yokota, a farming operations manager at Tanimura & Antle, the fresh produce company that hired the Lettuce Bot.
Many sectors in U.S. agriculture have relied on machines for decades and even the harvesting of fruits and vegetables meant for processing has slowly been mechanized. But nationwide, the vast majority of fresh-market fruit is still harvested by hand.
Research into fresh produce mechanization was dormant for years due to an over-abundance of workers and pressures from farmworker labor unions.show more
In recent years, as the labor supply has tightened and competition from abroad has increased, growers have sought out machines to reduce labor costs and supplement the nation's unstable agricultural workforce. The federal government, venture capital companies and commodity boards have stepped up with funding.
"We need to increase our efficiency, but nobody wants to work in the fields," said Stavros G. Vougioukas, professor of biological
In this May 23, 2013, photo, field operations manager Matthew Rossow tests the lettuce bot in Salinas, Calif. In the Salinas Valley, the lettuce capital of the world, entrepreneurs with the Silicon Valley company Blue River Technology are testing the Lettuce Bot, a boxy robotic machine that can thin fields of lettuce, a job that now requires detailed hand work by 20 farm workers. (AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez)
and agricultural engineering at the University of California, Davis.
But farmworker advocates say mechanization would lead to workers losing jobs, growers using more pesticides and the food supply becoming less safe.
"The fundamental question for consumers is who and, now, what do you want picking your food; a machine or a human, who with the proper training and support, can" ... take significant steps to ensure a safer, higher quality product, said Erik Nicholson, national vice president of the United Farm Workers of America.
On the Salinas Valley farm, entrepreneurs with Mountain View-based startup Blue River Technology are trying to show that the Lettuce Bot would not only replace two dozen workers, but also improve production.
"Using Lettuce Bot can produce more lettuce plants than doing it any other way," said Jorge Heraud, the company's co-founder and CEO.
After a lettuce field is planted, growers typically hire a crew of farmworkers who use hoes to remove excess plants to give space for others to grow into full lettuce heads. The Lettuce Bot uses video cameras and visual-recognition software to identify which lettuce plants to eliminate with a squirt of concentrated fertilizer that kills the unwanted buds while enriching the soil.
The company, which raised $3 million from a major Silicon Valley venture capital firm for the Lettuce Bot, also plans to develop machines to automate weeding -- and eventually harvesting -- using many of the same technologies.
Another company, San Diego-based Vision Robotics, is developing a similar lettuce thinner as well as a pruner for wine grapes. The pruner uses robotic arms and cameras to photograph and create a computerized model of the vines, figure out the canes' orientation and the location of buds -- all to decide which canes to cut down.
Fresh fruit harvesting remains the biggest challenge.
Machines have proved not only clumsy, but inadequate in selecting ripe produce. In addition to blunders in deciphering color and feel, machines have a hard time distinguishing produce from leaves and branches. And most importantly, matching the dexterity and speed of farmworkers has proved elusive.
"The hand-eye coordination workers have is really amazing, and they can pick incredibly fast. To replicate that in a machine, at the speed humans do and in an economical manner, we're still pretty far away," said Daniel L. Schmoldt at the U.S. Agriculture Department's National Institute of Food and Agriculture.
In southern California, engineers with the Spanish company Agrobot are taking on the challenge by working with local growers to test a strawberry harvester.
The machine is equipped with 24 arms whose movement is directed through an optical sensor; it allows the robot to make a choice based on fruit color, quality and size. The berries are plucked and placed on a conveyor belt, where the fruit is packed by a worker.
Still, the harvester collects only strawberries that are hanging on the sides of the bed, hence California's strawberry fields would have to be reshaped to accommodate the machine, including farming in single rows, raising the beds and even growing varieties with fewer clusters.
Experts say it will take at least 10 years for harvesters to be available commercially for most fresh-market fruit -- not a moment too soon for farmers worried about the availability of workers, said Lupe Sandoval, managing director of the California Farm Labor Contractor Association.
"If you can put a man on the moon," Sandoval said, "you can figure out how to pick fruit with a machine."
3.50 years after JFK, Dallas sheds shadow of history By Jamie Stengle, Associated Press
In this Nov. 22, 1963 file photo, President John F. Kennedy and his wife, Jacqueline Kennedy, arrive at Love Field airport in Dallas. (AP Photo/File)
Anger seethes from the letter mailed to City Hall on Nov. 23, 1963, the day after the tragedy, raging that this city "virtually invited the poor insignificant soul who blotted out the life of President Kennedy to do it in Dallas.
"Dallas, the city of Hate; Dallas, the city of Shame."
As the nation and world mark this year's 50th anniversary of the assassination of John F. Kennedy, special attention once again falls on the Texas metropolis. The "hate/shame" letter, which came from California and was one of many that poured in after the shooting, shows how the city instantly became a focus of fury, resentment and confusion, which locals have struggled with in the ensuing decades.
With scrutiny renewed by this year's milestone, Americans are learning again about the hostility toward Kennedy and his policies darkly voiced by some Dallasites before the assassination. The passing of five decades prompts new reflection on the city's tormented but evolving response to the crime here that changed history. And finally, many Americans wonder: How will Dallas mark that terrible day this year?
No longer are residents confronted by scorn when they tell people they're from Dallas - as then-Mayor Wes Wise was a decade after the assassination when asked by a fellow mayor how it felt to be the leader of "the city that killed Kennedy."
But it was a legacy that took time for the young city to come to terms with - a conundrum symbolized by its debate over the fate of the Texas School Book Depository, where Lee Harvey Oswald fired on the presidential motorcade from a sixth floor window.
The old depository building could have been razed but instead now houses the Sixth Floor Museum at Dealey Plaza, dedicated to telling the tale of that day unflinchingly.
"The story of the museum is also the story of Dallas," said Stephen Fagin, associate curator. "It's the story of the city and how the city has emerged from the long, dark shadow of history."
In this Nov. 22, 1963 file photo, President John F. Kennedy and first lady Jacqueline Kennedy ride in the backseat of an open limousine on Main Street at Ervay Street in Dallas as the presidential motorcade approaches Dealey Plaza. Texas Gov. John Connally, and his wife Nellie are seated in the limousine's jump seats. (AP Photo/File)
"Welcome Mr. Kennedy to Dallas." That was the headline across a full-page advertisement in The Dallas Morning News on Nov. 22, 1963, as the president made his way to the city on a political fence-mending trip
A quick read made it clear the ad's greeting was sarcastic: It went on to ask a series of questions that implied he was a communist sympathizer.
Reading it, Kennedy quipped to first lady Jacqueline Kennedy that they were "heading into nut country."
Just four weeks earlier, his United Nations ambassador, Adlai Stevenson, had been harangued by a group of ultra-conservatives as he spoke at a downtown auditorium. Frank McGehee, a Dallasite who had founded the anti-communist National Indignation Convention, shouted questions at Stevenson through a bullhorn until police took him away. Audience members loudly interrupted Stevenson's speech, and as he left, a woman bopped him on the head with a protest sign.
In this Nov. 22, 1963 file photo, people line the street as the hearse bearing the body of slain U.S. President John F. Kennedy leaves Parkland Hospital in Dallas, to be flown to Washington, D.C. (AP Photo/File)
"It was headlines across the nation," recalled Darwin Payne, a professor emeritus of communications at Southern Methodist University who was a reporter at the Dallas Times Herald in 1963.
Three years earlier, during the 1960 presidential campaign, protesters accosted Kennedy's running mate Lyndon B. Johnson and his wife Lady Bird as they crossed a downtown Dallas street from one hotel to another. At a White House luncheon in 1961, Dallas Morning News publisher E. M. "Ted" Dealey, told Kennedy to his face that a "man
In this Nov. 23, 1963 file photo, people line the street in front of the Dallas criminal courts building and county jail in hope of catching a glimpse of Lee Harvey Oswald, the man accused of shooting President John F. Kennedy. The fatal shots that killed the president came from the Texas Book Depository at background right. (AP Photo/File)
on horseback" was needed to lead the nation, not someone "riding Caroline's tricycle," a reference to Kennedy's young daughter. James F. Chambers Jr. of the rival Dallas Times Herald told Kennedy that Dealey's views didn't represent everyone. A war of editorials followed.
Besides McGehee's group, the anti-communist John Birch Society had an active chapter in Dallas. And the outspoken Maj. Gen. Edwin Walker, who resigned from the U.S. Army after being reprimanded for giving troops right-wing propaganda, settled in Dallas, where he flew the American flag upside down in front of his home.
In this Nov. 22, 1963 file photo, people, including right-wing protesters carrying a Confederate flag and anti-Kennedy placards, await the arrival of President John F. Kennedy at Love Field in Dallas. The 50th anniversary of Kennedy's assassination throws a new spotlight on the deep hostility toward Kennedy that some Dallasites voiced before the assassination. (AP Photo/File)
Anti-Kennedy fliers in the form of a "Wanted" poster with a mug shot-style portrait of the president appeared on the streets just before Kennedy's visit. Michael V. Hazel, historian of the city who was a high school sophomore in 1963, remembers his younger brother and a friend found such literature on the neighborhood sidewalk, leaving his family appalled. To most locals, Hazel said, "I think those incidents seemed rather isolated and almost fringe-type things."
But beyond the city, after the assassination, those incidents took on greater meaning to those looking for explanations. "The city got branded with the 'City of Hate' because the extreme conservatives, the right wingers, had a following and they were good at getting publicity," said Gary Mack, curator of the Sixth Floor Museum, who added, "A lot of people knew about them, but they didn't have a lot of followers."
In fact, as the president and first lady arrived in Dallas after buoyant stopovers in San Antonio, Houston and Fort Worth, bright skies and cheering throngs greeted them. As the motorcade made its way downtown, Kennedy even had his car stop so he could greet children who'd lined up.
Crowd estimates range from 150,000 to 200,000 people, about a third of the population of the city at the time, said Mack, adding, "When you look at the films and photographs, you cannot find more than two or three negative signs anywhere. There were nothing but cheers."
Wise, the future mayor who was a reporter with KRLD radio and television in 1963, agreed. He'd covered the Stevenson fracas, which was on his mind as Kennedy's motorcade left Dallas' Love Field. "It was such a cheerful crowd that my fears kind of went away," Wise said.
Near the end of its route, the motorcade approached the school book depository, located across from Dealey Plaza, a grassy area marking Dallas' birthplace in 1841. Texas first lady Nellie Connally, sitting beside her husband in front of the Kennedys in the limousine, recalled saying: "Mr. President, you certainly cannot say that Dallas doesn't love you."
The rifle shots came moments later.
As mayor at the time, Earle Cabell was on the receiving end of much of the criticism of Dallas that quickly followed.
The letters from around the world are part of his papers housed at Southern Methodist University, one of the sponsors of a series of public programs to mark the anniversary.show more
One letter writer alluded to an "insanity" predominating the city and its politics, while another was incredulous that Oswald himself could have been fatally shot while being escorted by police.
Oswald was not part of a far-right contingent (in fact, he had fired a shot at Gen. Walker in April 1963). He was a Marxist sympathizer who lived for a time in the Soviet Union, but his motive in the assassination remains murky.
"It's one of the great tragedies of history that he and Kennedy would be on the same block at the same time, but it's not Dallas' fault," said historian Tim Naftali, a research fellow at the New America Foundation.
Some letters to the city offered sympathy and support - and leaders began contemplating how to move forward.
Stanley Marcus, who led the Dallas-based luxury retailer Neiman Marcus, wrote a paid editorial on New Year's Day 1964 titled "What's Right with Dallas?" that got widespread attention. He listed not only the city's positives - such as its business climate - but also noted areas where the city could improve, including a need to eradicate a "spirit of 'absolutism.'"
Also in 1964, J. Erik Jonsson, co-founder of Texas Instruments, who succeeded Cabell as mayor, announced his "Goals for Dallas" initiative focusing on the future. Results included the new Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, kindergarten in public schools and other changes.
Current Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings called the program "a healing process as well as a planning process."
A dozen years after the assassination, with her appointment as chairwoman of the Dallas County Historical Commission, Lindalyn Adams began spending time at county offices near Dealey Plaza and noticed something striking: the constant flow of people who came to see where the president was killed.
"I could see visitors, no matter whether it was icy cold, terribly warm, hot, or whatever, night or day in that area," she said.
Adams herself had vivid memories of Nov. 22, 1963. Her husband, a professor of obstetrics and gynecology, had an office overlooking the emergency room at Parkland Memorial Hospital, where Kennedy was taken. They lived close enough to Love Field that she heard the engines rev up on Air Force One later that afternoon to return the body to Washington.
"It was absolutely terrible on all levels," said Adams, a Dallas native, "the fact the president was lost, the fact that it happened in our city, which we all loved."
Initial attempts by the city to satisfy the grieving and curious who flocked to the site proved unsatisfying.
In November 1966, a plaque was installed in Dealey Plaza giving a basic narrative of events. Four years later, officials dedicated a cenotaph designed by architect Philip Johnson. This "open tomb" featuring only Kennedy's name etched in granite amid 30-foot-high concrete walls was confusing to many. Even the discussion of a memorial stirred debate, with some in Dallas suggesting it should have been installed instead in Washington, D.C., Fagin noted, "because it was a painful memory that people here didn't want to think about."
By 1970, the Texas School Book Depository, the most visible reminder of the assassination, sat empty after the book company moved out. Following a push by a small group to buy the building and tear it down, the City Council passed an order in 1972 blocking demolition.
Eventually, the building caught the eye of county officials looking for additional space. Adams, part of a group that toured the "ghostlike, eerie" structure, recalled taking a freight elevator up to the empty sixth floor and peering from the window that had been Oswald's sniper perch. "I looked out of it for the first time and I thought, 'Oh my gosh, it's so close,'" she said.
The county bought the building in 1977 and opened offices there in 1981, with the sixth and seventh floors remaining empty.
Soon, Adams embarked on a mission to convince Dallasites something should be put in place to explain what had happened there. She found an ally in Lee Jackson, who after being elected as Dallas County judge in 1986 noticed the "persistent interest" of tourists.
"They walked around the building taking pictures. They walked around the grassy knoll and the triple underpass and Dealey Plaza. They came inside and asked how they get up and when told no they tried anyway," he said.
It was clear there was a battle over the meaning of this place, Fagin said: between visitors from outside "wanting somewhere to go to experience the history of the event ... versus the people of Dallas who were so frightened of this building becoming a shrine to Oswald or a further embarrassment to the city."
The sixth floor finally opened to the public in 1989. Even then, however, it was simply called an exhibit.
"To have a full-fledged museum was too much to take at that time," Adams said, though it's long since been accredited as a museum and expects to get 350,000 visitors this year.
Friends now tell her: "'Everyone who visits Dallas I take there. And I thought you were crazy. Thank you for doing it.'"
Of course, this process took time, said Edward T. Linenthal, a history professor at Indiana University and editor of the Journal of American History.
"If you have any kind of imagination it's a wormhole," he said. "It's a place of great sadness but you're standing at a place where the world changed."
Over time, Dallas has become more associated with the Dallas Cowboys football team and the television show "Dallas," chronicling the scheming Ewing family, than with the assassination. But the 50th anniversary has prompted reflection throughout the city.
As a counter to the "City of Hate" moniker, a nonprofit called 29 Pieces has teamed up with other organizations for the Dallas LOVE Project in which participants learn about Kennedy's legacy and create works of art expressing the "love that lives in Dallas" to be installed in the city, including along Kennedy's motorcade route.
The Dallas Museum of Art has premiered a commemorative exhibit: It reunites many works of art that Fort Worth residents had lent to decorate the Kennedys' hotel room the night of their stay in that city. The Nasher Sculpture Center will host a concert featuring a musical composition commissioned for the occasion. The Sixth Floor Museum has embarked on a speaking series featuring people with ties to Nov. 22, 1963.
The city itself will mark the date with a solemn ceremony in Dealey Plaza featuring the tolling of church bells, a moment of silence and readings by historian David McCullough from Kennedy's speeches.
"We want to be very respectful," said Mayor Rawlings. "We want to be very somber because it's a somber moment and have a sense of understated grace that I think this city has when it's at its best."
In this photo made Friday, Jan. 25, 2013, a visitor wearing a cowboy hat looks out onto Dealey Plaza from the Sixth Floor Museum located in the former Texas School Book Depository building in Dallas. As the nation and world mark the 50th anniversary this year of the assassination of John F. Kennedy, special attention once again falls on Dallas. (AP Photo/LM Otero) (LM Otero)4.Slapping, shoving kids tied to future health problems By Genevra Pittman, Reuters
Jerome Frazier, of Boston, holds up a belt as he testifies in favor of a bill that would prohibit parents from using corporal punishment to discipline their children during a legislative committee hearing at the Statehouse in Boston, Nov. 28, 2007. (AP Photo/Michael Dwyer) (Michael Dwyer)
Children who are punished through pushing, shoving and slapping are more likely to be obese and have other health problems when they grow up, a new study suggests.
"This is one study that adds to a growing area of research that all has consistent findings that physical punishment is associated with negative mental and now physical (health) outcomes," said Tracie Afifi, who led the study at the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, Canada.
Last year, she and her colleagues published findings linking hitting and slapping in childhood to a higher risk of depression and anxiety later in life.
For the current report, they re-analyzed data collected in 2004 and 2005 by United States Census interviewers, who surveyed more than 34,000 adults across the country.
Participants were asked whether their parents or other adults at home pushed, slapped, grabbed, shoved or hit them for punishment as a child. They also reported their current health conditions.
About 1,300 people reported being physically punished at least "sometimes" without more extreme physical or emotional abuse or neglect. Compared to people who weren't punished physically as children, they were more likely to have been diagnosed with at least one chronic health condition.
Specifically, those participants were 25 percent more likely to have arthritis and 28 percent more likely to have cardiovascular disease - though the second finding could have been due to chance, the researchers wrote Monday in Pediatrics.
More people who had been punished physically were obese: about 31 percent, versus 26 percent of those with no history of physical punishment.
Not every child who is slapped or pushed will develop mental or physical health problems, Afifi said.
But pain and inflammation from physical punishment, as well as psychological and behavioral responses to being hit, could lead to long-term problems for some children, she added.show more
"Changes in sleep, risk-taking behaviors, immune functioning and regulation of stress hormones that result from chronic or intense stress may be important factors," Michele Knox, a psychiatrist who studies family and youth violence at the University of Toledo College of Medicine, commented in an email.
"This isn't the safest method of discipline," Afifi told Reuters Health. "Your child might be fine afterward, but maybe not."
Knox, who was not involved in the new research, told Reuters Health doctors should talk with parents about alternative, non-physical methods of discipline.
"If we want what's best for our children, we need to choose discipline that does not come with these risks," she said.
Afifi said the point of the study is not to blame parents, or to say all discipline should be avoided.
"The recommendation against physical punishment does not imply the avoidance of discipline," she said. "We're not saying, ' Just let your kid run wild.' "5.Santa's Land saved, reopens By CHRIS MAYS / Reformer Staff
Refurbished train at Santa's Land, which is now open 7 days a week and has new owners. (Chris Mays/Reformer)
PUTNEY -- Santa's Land is saved!
It's new owners, the Billewicz family, have been busy going over all the details and making sure everything's ready before the children's park was reopened earlier this month.
"They treat me really well here," said Santa.
On July 7, Santa's Land was reopened to the public for seven days a week until Labor Day. After that, the park will be open weekends until Christmas.
"One thing we have to respect is that we are not to change what has been tradition for the generations that have come before," said Lillian Billewicz. "We want to leave it nostalgic, yet restore some of the attractions that need attention."
Billewicz had been following the story of Santa's Land since December 2011, when the park was about to be closed forever. She went to the park in February 2012 to check it out.
It was zero degrees outside. In a buggy, she was driven around the 42-acre property in snow and sleet.
"I saw it while I was bumping around," she said. "I saw something -- the potential."
Billewicz told previous owners Tim and Lesley Wells that if they ever wanted to sell the park, they should contact her first. Billewicz was never notified.
In the fall of 2012, she saw Santa's Land was up for auction and it triggered a maternal instinct.
"I said, 'No, no, no. That's not going to happen,'" Billewicz recalled.
The following two weeks, she and her two sons, Johnathan and Michael, began their attempts to save it from going to auction. show more
One of the major reasons for not wanting it to go to auction was that Santa's Land was included in a grandfather clause for zoning that it would lose if it went out to auction. The grandfather clause also stated that the park couldn't be closed for longer than a year.
Since it was closed in 2011, it had to be reopened in 2012 or the grandfather clause would be lost.
The doors were open but ownership was still up in the air. Volunteers met through Facebook on the "Save Our Santa's Land" page and the doors stayed open for a short time during 2012.
From January up until a few weeks ago, the Billewicz family has been in contract negotiations.
Since acquiring the park, friends and family have come up to the Putney property to assist with revitalizing some of the buildings and thoroughly cleaning the park.
There is now a clothing store for infants and toddlers with all new products, where the arcade used to be. Pathways in the park are now lined with huge candy canes.
The old black train has been scraped down and redone. The sleighs have been repainted.
New selections will be on the snack bar menu, which includes subs, kolbasi kabobs, chicken kabobs, shrimp kabobs, ice cream sundaes and banana splits.
And, 10 new fawns were born in the past two weeks, including with two sets of twins, in the deep park.
Chris Mays can be reached at 802-254-2311, ext. 273, or cmays@reformer.com Follow Chris on Twitter @CMaysReformer.
