The lawyer representing the man who shot and killed 17-year-old Jordan Davis expects State Attorney Angela Corey to come after his client even harder now that she's lost the George Zimmerman case. 
"I worry they're going to say, 'We lost Zimmerman, so let's get Michael Dunn.'" Cory Strolla said following a hearing Tuesday.
Both cases involve black teenagers killed and speculation that racism or profiling were factors.
Zimmerman was acquitted last week in Sanford on charges that he killed 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. Martin was black and Zimmerman is Hispanic. Corey's office was the special prosecutor in the case and lost when Zimmerman's lawyers argued it was self-defense.
Dunn, who is white, is charged with first-degree murder and three counts of attempted murder. The 46-year-old Brevard County man faces life without parole if he's convicted.
Last November, Dunn opened fire on a Dodge Durango with Davis and three other black teenagers inside after a dispute over their loud music at a Southside Boulevard gas station in Jacksonville. Before the shooting, police said Dunn turned to his girlfriend and said, "I hate that thug music."
Dunn told police he thought the teenagers were pointing a gun at him during an exchange of words. But no gun was found in the vehicle or on any of the teenagers.
Corey is personally prosecuting Dunn but was not in court Tuesday for the pretrial hearing. Assistant State Attorney Erin Wolfson represented the state.
Corey, Wolfson and spokeswoman Jackelyn Barnard could not be reached for comment after Strolla spoke.
Tuesday's hearing was the first since Judge Russell Healey replaced judges Suzanne Bass and Mallory Cooper, who each excused themselves from the case.
Strolla sought Bass' removal after accusing her of misconduct and bias against his client. Cooper is now handling another high-profile case, Donald James Smith for 8-year-old Cherish Perrywinkle's sexual assault and death.
Bass denied Dunn bail, refused a motion to have the state declare him indigent and pushed to have the trial in September even though his attorneys said it was unrealistic.
With a new judge, Strolla sought to revisit bail and Dunn's indigent status. But Healey denied both requests.
If Dunn had been declared indigent, the state would have been required to pay for investigations Strolla wanted to conduct into the crime.
Bass and Healey both denied the motion because Strolla is being paid $7,500 a month to represent Dunn. Strolla said Dunn's parents are paying him, and not Dunn himself, but both judges said that didn't matter.
Strolla also reiterated his previous statement that he would not be ready for trial in September and told Healey the earliest he could be prepared is February. Healey told Strolla he wanted to try the case this year, but for now the trial date remains set for Sept. 23.
The next hearing is scheduled for Aug. 13.
Attorney John Phillips, who represents the Davis family, said the family would have no comment as they left the courthouse after the hearing. But as they walked away, Ron Davis, father of Jordan, looked back and said, "It was a good day."
Larry Hannan: (904) 359-4470
