WASHINGTON - The acquittal of George Zimmerman, the neighborhood watch coordinator cleared of Florida charges that he murdered black 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, spurred new calls for a federal civil rights prosecution and suggestions that the youth's family may bring a lawsuit. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is pushing U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to pursue a hate crimes case against Zimmerman, its head said Monday on CNN's "State of the Union." A Martin family lawyer, Benjamin Crump, said Martin's parents would investigate filing a lawsuit outside Sanford, Fla., where the criminal trial was held. "There is reason to be concerned that race was a factor in why he targeted young Trayvon" Ben Jealous, the NAACP president, said.  
"We know there will be a state phase, there will be a civil phase almost assuredly, and then there will be a civil rights phase." The Justice Department on Monday reiterated a March 19, 2012, statement that it was investigating the "facts and circumstances" surrounding the shooting, and will take "appropriate action" at the probe's conclusion. "Experienced federal prosecutors will determine whether the evidence reveals a prosecutable violation of any of the limited federal criminal civil rights statutes within our jurisdiction, and whether federal prosecution is appropriate in accordance with the department's policy governing successive federal prosecution following a state trial," the department said in an emailed statement. Holder called the killing a ''tragic, unnecessary shooting'' and said the Justice Department will follow ''the facts and the law'' as it reviews evidence to see whether federal criminal charges are warranted. ''I hope that we will approach this necessarily difficult dialogue with the same dignity that those who have lost the most, Trayvon's parents, have demonstrated throughout the last year - and especially the past few days,'' Holder said. "They suffered a pain that no parent should have to endure - and one that I, as a father, cannot begin to conceive.'' Holder's comments came in a speech to the 51st national convention of the Delta Sigma Theta, the nation's largest African American sorority. In a wrongful-death action against Zimmerman, Martin's family would need to show he was culpable only by a preponderance of the evidence, according to Peter Grenier, a personal-injury lawyer at Bode & Grenier LLP in Washington. The criminal case and acquittal, decided on the standard of beyond a reasonable doubt, would be irrelevant to the civil case under Florida law, Grenier said. O.J. Simpson, who was acquitted of murder in the stabbing deaths of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and Ron Goldman, was ordered to pay $33.5 million after losing a wrongful-death trial. Florida is a comparative-fault state, meaning jurors would weigh both Martin's and Zimmerman's culpability. In Florida, wrongful-death suits claiming negligence must be filed within two years. There is no time limit for suits alleging intentional death. Most cases claim negligence so damages can be covered by the defendant's homeowner's insurance, Grenier said. Individuals found to be justified in using deadly force may be immune from civil liability under Florida law. If the family sues and loses, it might be ordered to pay attorneys' fees and compensation to defendants, according to state law. Zimmerman would have to establish immunity in a separate proceeding, Tamara F. Lawson, a professor at the St. Thomas University School of Law, said in a phone interview. "In any potential subsequent civil case, the court would have to rule if he's entitled to civil immunity," she said. Kendall Coffey, a former U.S. attorney in Miami, Fla., said Martin's family can sue because Zimmerman didn't seek a hearing under the state's self-defense law before he was tried. President Barack Obama said Monday that "we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken. I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son." It would be inappropriate for the president to express an opinion on how the Justice Department deals with Zimmerman, White House press secretary Jay Carney said. The six-woman jury on Saturday found Zimmerman, 29, not guilty of murder or the lesser crime of manslaughter for shooting Martin through the heart during a struggle at the townhouse complex where Martin was staying at the home of his father's girlfriend. Prosecutors alleged Zimmerman, whose father is white and mother is Hispanic, profiled Martin as a criminal suspect, then followed and confronted him, leading to the altercation in which the unarmed youth was killed. Defense lawyers argued that Zimmerman acted in self-defense, fearing for his life after Martin punched him in the face, knocked him to the ground and then pounded his head against the pavement. Other organizations calling for a Justice Department prosecution include MoveOn.org, which said in a statement yesterday it has joined the NAACP in collecting signatures on a petition to push for a federal investigation. More than 270,000 people have already signed it, the group said Monday. Zimmerman could get life in prison if charged and convicted under federal hate crime laws. The Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, calling for Justice Department action, said the trial was "characterized by racial overtones from the beginning." Bringing a civil rights case wouldn't be double jeopardy because it would be prosecuted by the U.S. under federal law, Christina Swarns, director of criminal justice at the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, said. Such cases after a state prosecution are rare, she said. The Associated Press contributed to this report. SUBHEAD: There are calls for federal civil rights charges, and many expect Martin's family to file a civil suit. 
