My head hurts - and it's not because of the Trayvon Martin verdict.
Actually, that verdict cleared up a few things. For the first time, I understand the NRA and America's affinity for guns. Packing a firearm is essential to survival, especially in a state like Florida.
So, I've told my sons that if they relocate to the U.S., they should, at the earliest possibility, acquire a gun and the authority to carry it at all times. Then, when an aggressor stands his ground, so can they. 
It's transit that has my head pounding.
Nearly three decades on the file leads one to despair. Little gets done without a confluence of cosmic political forces.
And when they collide, there is much heat and sparks but little light and truth.
By some political fluke, the Scarborough subway debate has been resurrected. Last year, council voted for an LRT instead of the more costly subway to replace the Scarborough RT. (Mayor Rob Ford refused to apply property taxes to the project so council balked.)
Ford threatened to campaign against the Scarborough councillors who didn't back his unfunded subway plan. Then when two councillors revived the subway optioned, Ford again voted against the subway because a property tax increase was required. The matter seemed dead.
Then a number of unexpected and strange things happened. The provincial Liberals, who are funding the project, found themselves needing to win an Aug. 1 byelection in Scarborough. Polls show high support for a subway there.
Then city council voted on a funding plan for transit in the GTA and rejected everything but a sales tax hike. Tacked onto that vote was a motion to consider a subway instead of LRT. It passed.
The provincial Liberals saw an opening to move some Scarborough votes into their harbour and soon Scarborough councillors with ties to the Liberal government were arguing for the very thing they rejected not long ago.
The final unlikely alignment came last week when Mayor Ford, realizing he would again be offside on an issue that is his to win, politically, agreed to a property tax hike for a Scarborough subway.
So Ford caved on the matter of taxes to set up a political win Tuesday at council - one he will use to fuel his re-election campaign next year.
The subway plan may yet crash, once the political imperatives change. Till then, consider this a phenomenon fed by chutzpah, demagoguery, political opportunism, cynical vote-buying, blatant flip-floppery and outright lies.
And the pro-subway crowd burst into paroxysms of applause and delight. They've always wanted a subway. They're getting a subway - maybe - if the political winds don't change quickly, inevitably.
Transportation Minister Glen Murray met Ford at city hall Monday and emerged into a news conference where he barely stopped to inhale. He's waiting on city council to vote for a subway to replace the planned LRT. Only then will he address the mayor's demands for $1.8 billion, not $1.4 billion on the table.
And he wants a solid business plan. And an economic impact study. And where are the plans to increase densities and employment in the corridor so the line will pay for itself? And why is the corridor, today, so unfriendly to transit users?
Those questions betray a problem and "huge challenge bigger than the subways versus LRT debate," Murray said. The corridor needs new zoning, more people and more jobs because nearly 30 years of the RT line has "not changed much" to make it economically viable.
All good, Mr. Minister. Where were those questions and concerns when the LRT was approved? And watch them disappear as soon as the political deal is signed to move to subways.
Councillor Janet Davis spoke another truth yesterday. "The people of Scarborough have been hijacked once again because there's an obsession in (the mayor's) office with putting trains underground," he said.
But it is only a partial truth. It's also what Scarborough residents want - damn the facts, studies, ridership figures, higher costs, longer construction time, lies and unfair fears about LRTs.
Eventually, we get the transit we believe in - even if we delay the transit we need.
Royson James usually appears Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
Email: rjames@thestar.ca
