Long before a Florida jury found George Zimmerman not guilty of murdering Trayvon Martin, I'd given up on justice prevailing in this case. I was pessimistic even though the facts seemed clear: the armed, wannabe cop pursued the 17-year-old boy through the dark streets of a Sanford, Fla., neighborhood over the objection of a 911 operator because he believed the boy was one of those "punks" who "always get away" with a crime.
Zimmerman, 29, a white Hispanic who had a gun the night of his deadly encounter with the black teen, had Florida law --and the suppressed issue of race -- on his side. The state's self-defense statute favored this gun-toting man who pursued the frightened youngster. That law became Zimmerman's get-out-of-jail-free ticket the moment his lawyers argued their client shot Martin because he was losing a fistfight his actions precipitated. Justice makes no concession to such a whiplash notion of self-defense. But Florida law and this case's racial subplot did. 
Forgotten facts
Forget that Zimmerman wrongly profiled Martin as a boy up to no good as Martin made his way toward the house where  he was staying. Forget that Martin was armed with only a bag of Skittles and a can of iced tea while Zimmerman was packing a 9-mm handgun. Forget that Zimmerman got out of his SUV for no good reason and minutes later was in a fistfight with Martin. The judge told the jurors they could set Zimmerman free if they believed he feared for his life when the black youngster he pursued got the better of him.
Ironically, in what seems a winning argument, Zimmerman's team accused Martin of being responsible for his own death because he didn't retreat when he had the chance. "The person who decided that this was going to continue, was going to become a violent event, was the guy who didn't go home when he had the chance to. It was the guy who decided to lie in wait," defense attorney Mark O'Mara said in his closing argument.
Time to get away?
Martin had four minutes to run away, O'Mara said. Instead, the defense attorney claimed, the boy lay in wait and jumped Zimmerman when he walked by his hiding place. This is where justice  took its worst beating.
What was Zimmerman doing in those four minutes?  Why didn't he get back into his car and drive off?
If Martin was hiding  as O'Mara believes, isn't it possible he was there because Zimmerman began pursuing him by foot? And in that situation, doesn't justice give Martin the right to stand his ground in the face of Zimmerman's threatening behavior?
How did the victim in this case lose his presumption of innocence? How did Martin's right to use deadly force when he allegedly slammed Zimmerman's head into the sidewalk get lost in the murder trial of the man who relentlessly hunted him?
"I had hoped for a different outcome, but logically I should have known better," Al Vivian, president of Basic Diversity, Inc., a  training firm in Fayetteville, Ga., said of the verdict rendered by the jury of six women.
I hoped that blacks would not have been kept off of Zimmerman's jury. I worried that without this balance, the panel might be convinced that  Martin's killer was the real victim in this case. And sadly, we now know, that's just what happened.
DeWayne Wickham writes on Tuesdays for USA TODAY. 
