Reactions to the Zimmerman verdict  
  Regarding "Zimmerman had the right to defend himself" (Page A-5,  July 16):  
    It is clear that the jury failed to understand the facts of this  case as the state presented them. Juries react to their impressions  about particular events. The prosecutor's job is to channel those  feelings toward a conviction while the defense is doing the  opposite.  
    In this case, as in many other cases (see O.J. Simpson), the  prosecution was not at the level of the defense. The defense team  consisted of the best criminal lawyers available while the  prosecution was represented by modest state employees clumsily  trying to explain the facts of the case.  
    In order for the judicial process to be fair, the prosecutor should  come from a private law firm paid by the state with a negotiated  fee. Let the best criminal lawyers fight for the state and the  outcome undoubtedly will be more just and logical.   
    Fausto Lucignani  
    Clifton, July 15  
    *  
    Regarding "Zimmerman acquittal: Verdict stirs North Jersey" (Page  A-1, July 15):  
    Why do I feel in the minority regarding the decision in the George  Zimmerman trial?  
    The prosecution did not prove its case. Additionally, I believe  that the true impression of TrayvonMartin was not depicted in the  media.  
    Also, being a retired detective in Passaic, I have seen firsthand  the kind of intimidation and threatening behavior that is all too  prevalent in the inner city. There were numerous times I was in  fear for my life while wearing a uniform. The media tend to go with  the politically correct stance instead of the facts.  
    Howard Shaw  
    Rutherford, July 16  
    *  
    Regarding "Zimmerman acquittal: Verdict stirs North Jersey" (Page  A-1, July 15):  
    The tragic death of TrayvonMartin prompted many civil rights  activists to protest the jury's not-guilty verdict and demand that  young African-American men be "respected and protected."  
    One pundit said, "It's just not safe to be a young black man in  this country."  
    But the reality is that when you check actual FBI crime statistics,  you find that most of these young people who have been killed or  wounded were the victims of black-on-black crime.  
    In fact, during the same weekend that the Zimmerman jury was  deliberating in Florida, by that Sunday evening in Chicago, 54  people were shot and 10 were killed. The overwhelming majority of  those incidents involved African-Americans shot by fellow blacks.  The same is true in many other urban areas across the country.  
    The main question that arises is: Why aren't civil rights leaders  immediately traveling to Chicago to head anti-violence marches?  
    If civil rights activists really want to honor the memory of  TrayvonMartin, they should be marching against violence by people  of any race, creed or color.  
    Edward Galorenzo  
    Washington Township, July 16  
    *  
    Regarding "Zimmerman acquittal: Verdict stirs North Jersey" (Your  Views, July 16):  
    Everyone seems to feel this is a racial issue. While some racial  profiling may have been involved, the real issue, as far as I'm  concerned, is gun control. If Zimmerman had not been packing a gun  that night, TrayvonMartin would still be alive.  
    Judith Weisbuch  
    Westwood, July 16 
   Patients should question health reform  
    Physicians and their patients should voice their concerns regarding  the potential negative impact of the Patient Protection and  Affordable Care Act on the quality of medical services rendered.  
    The act is destined to seriously burden an already unmanageable  health care system by fostering a significant increase in potential  patients without providing the necessary support required.  
    As an example, the state has accepted the act's increased Medicaid  funding commencing in 2014. Accordingly, an estimated 100,000  additional Medicaid beneficiaries will qualify to receive health  care in a system that cannot provide sufficient care to its  existing recipients.  
    The majority of licensed and board-certified internists and  family-care physicians in New Jersey are unable to see Medicaid  patients due to a very inadequate compensation rate. It is  virtually impossible for these patients to see board-certified  specialists at all.  
    While the act will provide a limited number of billing codes for  primary care physicians to receive increased compensation at the  Medicare rate, there is no such provision for specialists and other  health care professionals. Therefore, Medicaid patients may be able  to get primary care but will not be able to utilize the medical  services of cardiologists, pulmonologists, neurologists,  rheumatologists and other well-trained and experienced specialists.  
    It is the combination of superior primary care complemented by the  specialists that has resulted in high-quality health care in the  United States. Physicians and their patients are what health care  is about. Why are they relatively silent?  
    Richard Weinberg  
    Woodland Park, July 15 
   Poor communication by NJ Transit  
    Regarding "$2.5M upgrade for central Westwood" (Page L-2, July 1):  
    Rail service has been suspended on weekends for track work in  Westwood, and there's no daytime service on weekdays. When my  husband walked past the train station in Oradell, he saw numerous  people sitting there waiting for the train.  
    There is no posting of this suspension anywhere at the station, and  if you didn't see the news in The Record, or commute daily, there  is no way you would know about it. My husband stopped to tell the  people who were waiting; one man said he had been waiting for 40  minutes.  
    While he was there, someone from NJ Transit came to refill the  ticket machine. Perhaps the new musical program being planned for  stations in Secaucus and Hoboken would be useful to entertain these  hapless customers while they wait for a train that never arrives.  
    NJ Transit should be ashamed of its pathetic communication with  riders.  
    Leslie A. Kruegel  
    Oradell, July 15 
    Some good news on senior center  
    Regarding "Deal brings new senior center one step closer" (Page  L-1, July 13):  
    Thanks for the update on Bergen County taking over the Martin  Luther King Jr. Senior Center building. I've supported this center  along with my colleagues and watched over the years as previous  Hackensack administrations always seemed to find a way to keep the  building from moving forward. This dream for the many wonderful  folks at the MLK center is a long time coming.  
    Kudos to the Housing Authority of Bergen County and to County  Executive Kathleen Donovan for completing the dream.  
    Many wonderful folks attended the center for years as it operated  out of one room thanks to a church that housed it for so long. The  center has given back to the community with a tutoring program for  Hackensack schoolchildren. I now look forward at long last to the  opening of the center.  
    Loretta Weinberg  
    Teaneck, July 15  
    The writer, a Democrat, is majority leader of the state Senate. 
   Garrett's 'shameful' farm bill vote  
    Regarding "Down on the farm" (Editorial, July 15):  
    As The Record so aptly put it, "Subsidies for farmers, but not a  dime for the federal food stamp program."  
    Left out of that discussion is the fact that my new congressman,  Scott Garrett, R-Wantage, supported what the newspaper accurately  pegged as a "shameful vote."  
    We did have a congressman who better represented our interests here  in the Hackensack area, but that representative, Steve Rothman,  D-Englewood, opted to avoid a fight with Garrett to run in a  primary that he lost. We now stand to lose a program that serves  more than 800,000 New Jersey residents because our representative  stands strictly for principles that serve his end, and not those of  the people.  
    Richard A. Naumann  
    Hackensack, July 16
