Martin-Zimmerman case
Dear Editor: The unarmed African-American teen, TrayvonMartin, was walking back to his father's house after buying candy at a nearby store -- a perfectly innocent and non-threatening activity. This was confirmed by a police report that noted there was "no indication that TrayvonMartin was involved in any criminal activity at the time of the encounter and should not have been accosted." 
The police dispatcher specifically prohibited George Zimmerman from approaching Martin. Ignoring police appeals, Zimmerman precipitated an altercation and an innocent victim was murdered in cold blood. Responding to intense public pressure, the police finally arrested Zimmerman after 44 long days.
The verdict is a travesty of a flawed criminal justice system that refused to treat the murder as a crime and has now left a vigilante a free man.
The system of racist brutality carried out against poor people and people of color in communities from Florida to New York to California to Texas and elsewhere is an affront to all Americans. Martin's tragic death follows a long pattern of police brutality against unarmed black youths such as Oscar Grant, Alan Blueford and Manuel Diaz and countless others.
The "stand your ground" law is a throwback to the Wild West days when the fastest gunslinger lived. This a barbaric law and should be repealed.
The Zimmerman verdict will imperil all Americans, especially black teens who will no longer feel safe in the "land of the free and home of the brave."
Tejinder Uberoi,
Los Altos
Iran
Dear Editor: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was back in Washington last week urging us to bushwhack Iran for its failure to buckle to Israel's "red line" demands to end its nuclear activity. Clearly, Israel appears to be totally unconcerned about creating further turmoil in the Middle East, which is already raging with political upheaval and instability. Such a preemptive attack on Iran would cause oil prices to spike and could precipitate a serious downturn in our own economy.
Military leaders and other U.S. and Israeli security officials from across the political spectrum have warned that an attack on Iran would likely provoke a full-scale regional war and accelerate the development of Iranian nuclear weapons.
Former U.S. national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski has said an attack on Iran would be "an act of utter irresponsibility" and "potentially a significant immorality" if the United States participated. Israel's security officials have described such a preemptive strike as "madness."
Israel would be far wiser to push for a nuclear-free zone endorsed by Iran's supreme leader and the non-aligned movement comprising 120 countries.
Inexplicably, a conference scheduled to be held in Finland was shunned by the U.S. and Israel. Israel continues to be coy about its own huge stockpile of nuclear weapons which Avner Cohen, an Israeli historian, called the "world's worst kept secret." It is time Netanyahu stops huffing and puffing and drawing our war weary country into another disastrous conflict.
Jagjit Singh,
Los Altos
