"Segodnya, presented by Liliya Gildeyeva and Aleksey Pivovarov
15:0038 Headlines: Snowden asks for asylum; Italian police bug suspected killer of Russian criminal kingpin; Putin criticizes government's work; religious relic brought to Moscow; protests in Egypt; US scandal over murder of unarmed black teenager. 
1. 0145 Former CIA employee Edward Snowden has applied for temporary asylum in Russia, lawyer and member of Russia's Public Chamber Anatoliy Kucherena has said. Kucherena comments. The Federal Migration Service has confirmed that it has received Snowden's application.
2. 0311 Members of the government have again had to explain today why they haven't implemented instructions issued by Vladimir Putin; this time the instructions concern the socio-economic development of Sakhalin Region, which were set in December 2012. Putin criticized the government's work during a visit to Russia's Far East. Video report.
Putin also inspected the progress of a major snap drill in the Eastern Military District involving 160,000 people; he instructed Defence Minister Sergey Shoygu to begin the drill on 13 July.
3. 0624 Yaroslavl mayor Yevgeniy Urlashov, arrested earlier this month for allegedly extorting a bribe, has been moved to Moscow's Matrosskaya Tishina remand centre. Presenter-read report over video. 
4. 0655 Italian police have announced that they have a recording of two Russian criminal kingpins discussing by telephone at the end of last year the elimination of influential kingpin Aslan Usoyan, also known as Ded Khasan (Grandfather Khasan). Usoyan was shot dead in Moscow in January. Russian police are sceptical about the information, the presenter notes. Video report.
5. 1010 An important Orthodox relic has been brought to Moscow. Video report. 
6. 1322 The Moscow mayoral election will be broadcast online, after acting Moscow mayor Sergey Sobyanin proposed setting up webcams at polling stations. People will have to be registered to watch online. Presenter-read report over video.
7. 1424 Seven people have died and almost 300 have been hurt in protest clashes in Egypt between security forces and supporters of ousted President Muhammad Morsi. Over 400 demonstrators were detained. Correspondent reports live from Egypt.
8. 1728 Protests are continuing in the USA after neighbourhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman was cleared of murdering an unarmed black teenager, Trayvon Martin, in Florida in February 2012. One of the jurors has given an interview. Video report.
9. 2123 Igor Poletayev with the economics news: Russian airlines will soon be able to sell non-refundable tickets; Rosneft is to invest R52bn this year in developing the Far East; Prime Minister Dmitriy Medvedev has said that it is necessary to stimulate demand for ferrous metal in Russia; the Finance Ministry has proposed making some forms of insurance non-compulsory by 2020; stock market news.
2431 Presenters sign off.
Source: NTV, Moscow, in Russian 1500 gmt 16 Jul 13
