 "Military religious freedoms under attack, groups say" (News, July 10) mentions the Military Religious Freedom Foundation but fails to mention why this group exists in the first place. MRFF exists because reports from various military installations across the country show that some commanders have been using their religious beliefs as an excuse to harass lower-ranking members.
 In May 2010, soldiers attending training at Fort Eustice in Virginia reported being confined to their quarters for opting out of attending a concert by the Christian band BarlowGirl organized by the base command structure. Mandatory "Spiritual Fitness Assessments" are commonly used to evaluate leadership and command skills, with required remediation for service members who are deemed "not spiritual enough." Some soldiers suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder were referred to chaplains for counseling (rather than to mental health professionals), where they're commonly told their mental health problems are a result of their lack of faith. 
 These are not just a handful of disgruntled disbelievers trying to stir up trouble. The MRFF estimates 90 percent of the reports they get are from Christians seeking relief from evangelical or fundamentalist Christians. Aggressive proselytization hinders  unit cohesion, mission readiness and discipline. These regulations are in place to protect service members, not persecute them.
 I applaud the Department of Defense's reminder to its chain of command that aggressive proselytizing is a violation of the First Amendment rights of our service members and is unacceptable. Brenda Weber, Lawton
 Weber is co-founder of the Lawton Area Secular Society, described as a social network for atheists, agnostics, skeptics and nonbelievers.
Religious freedom exists
 Regarding "Military religious freedoms under attack, groups say" (News, July 10): As a deployed service member, I'd like to assure U.S. Rep. Jim Bridenstine, R-Tulsa, that my religious freedom isn't under attack. In fact, the chaplain corps where I am has done an outstanding job of accommodating and respecting the beliefs and practices of religious and nonreligious personnel. To bolster his specious charge, Bridenstine also uses a George Washington quote to question the military judgment of the commander in chief. Likewise, I question Bridenstine's fitness as a member of Congress if he feels that making far-fetched attacks on the president is a constructive use of taxpayer time and money. Brian Crain, Oklahoma City
Promote peace
 On Feb. 26, 2012, 17-year-old Trayvon Martin met 29-year-old George Zimmerman on the dark streets of an Orlando, Fla., suburb. Zimmerman shot Martin dead. On July 13, 2013, Zimmerman was declared not guilty of second-degree murder. The confrontation, death, trial and acquittal are controversial. Thousands have demonstrated. Millions of social media messages have included death threats. My advice? When meeting someone on a dark street do not break their nose. Instead, greet them with a friendly, "Good evening." Do not knock them down to ride them like a horse. Instead, offer an open hand for a firm grip. Do not bash their head against the concrete until bloody. Instead, start a respectful conversation.
 Finally, do not expect assaulted people to remain passive. Nowadays, some may have a gun to protect themselves from attacks. Politeness promotes peace. John Terneus, Yukon
Delusional idea
 In response to Jim Barlow (Your Views, July 7): The earth's climate has been changing for the past 3.5 billion years, without any help from humans. A single large hurricane demonstrates nature's ability to produce energy exceeding that of the largest nuclear weapon ever tested. A single volcanic eruption produces more greenhouse gases than the largest reduction in those gases the entire country can achieve in a year.
 The same climate models that are supposed to prove that humans are almost entirely responsible for changes in climate have been unable to explain why the earth's temperature has remained unchanging for the past 15 years. Fact is, the climate would continue to change if the human race disappeared entirely. So it's delusional to think that by imposing economically destructive abuse on society, we can make it all stop.
 The good news: Climate change takes place slowly. This gives us time to adapt - so long as we don't remain in denial. Panic and hysteria hardly ever work to our benefit, forcing us into bad choices. Climate change adherents would make more headway by sending a positive message about the benefits of clean energy.
  Now, they just sound like Chicken Little, which hurts their cause. Charles P. "Pat" Kelley, Oklahoma City
 Send letters to yourviews@ opubco.com or to Your Views, P.O. Box 25125, Oklahoma City, OK 73125. Word limit is 250. Include a postal address and telephone number. For other guidelines, go to www.newsok.com/voices/guidelines or call (405) 475-3920.
