LOS ANGELES - Mayor Eric Garcetti called for peace and cut short an east coast visit to return to Los Angeles on Monday following police confrontations with protesters angry over the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin.
Police shot beanbag rounds and arrested six people - including one on suspicion of assaulting an officer - while breaking up relatively small demonstrations Sunday and before dawn on Monday.
No injuries were reported to either demonstrators or officers, but Garcetti decided to return "out of an abundance of caution."
"He encourages people to exercise their First Amendment rights but does believe in keeping the peace on the streets of Los Angeles and believes non-violence is a very potent tool," mayoral spokesman Yusef Robb said.
Garcetti doesn't want the message to be "overshadowed by violence," Robb said.
The new mayor was supposed to visit Maryland on Monday and then move on to Washington, D.C., later in the week to meet with the transportation secretary and California congressional delegation.
It was not immediately clear whether he would be able to resume the trip, Robb said.
Protesters in Los Angeles and Oakland blocked traffic and clashed with police on Sunday in protests over a Florida jury's acquittal of neighbourhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman in the shooting death of the unarmed black teenager.
However, most demonstrations around the state were peaceful.
In Los Angeles on Sunday, several hundred protesters demonstrated in the Mid-City area, and some marched onto Interstate 10 in Los Angeles and blocked traffic for close to a half-hour before police moved them away.
That night, a smaller group of demonstrators entered the lobby of the W luxury hotel in Hollywood and then trooped to Sunset Boulevard to chant "no justice, no peace" in front of the CNN building, authorities said.
Dozens of police in helmets and face shields declared an unlawful assembly after midnight on Monday and moved in.
Some non-lethal beanbag ammunition was fired during that confrontation, officer Gregory Baek said.
In Oakland, police confronted members of a crowd who began breaking windows and spray-painting graffiti at a downtown intersection on Sunday night, the Oakland Tribune reported.
Protesters marched about five miles before sitting at a major intersection and blocking traffic. The Tribune said the crowd was largely peaceful, but by 10 p.m. a smaller group of protesters began vandalizing businesses.
