President Barack Obama's administration pledged Monday to continue a yearlong investigation into TrayvonMartin's death and determine whether to file federal charges following a state jury's acquittal of George Zimmerman.
 While Obama took the unusual step of speaking publicly about a case in a state court, he stopped short of criticizing the Florida jury that handed down its verdict late Saturday.
 Instead, he used the case to push for a series of gun control measures that were defeated earlier this year after an elementary school shooting in Connecticut. 
 "The president wanted to convey that he felt that the death of TrayvonMartin was a tragedy for his family, for a community, but also for the country," said White House spokesman Jay Carney. "And he wanted to express his view that we should ask ourselves if we are doing all that we can to foster compassion and understanding in our communities and to stem the tide of gun violence, as well as how we can prevent future tragedies like this from happening."
 Zimmerman, 29, who has a white father and a Latina mother, argued that he was defending himself when he shot Martin, 17, as the black teen was walking home through a Sanford, Fla., gated community in February 2012.
 Attorney General Eric Holder said Monday thatthe case provides an opportunity for the nation todiscuss "complicated and emotionally charged issues."
 "We are resolved to combat violence involving or directed at young people, to prevent future tragedies and to deal with the underlying attitudes, mistaken beliefs and stereotypes that serve as the basis for these too common incidents,"he said at the anniversary celebration of the predominantly African-American sorority Delta Sigma Theta.
 Zimmerman's acquittal has led to demonstrations across the nation and questions from civil rights organizations. Hundreds of thousands of people have signed an NAACP petition calling on the Justice Department to launch a civil rights investigation while thousands have signed a White House petition asking Holder to file charges against Zimmerman.
 Carney said Obama would not get involved in the Justice Department investigation.
 "This is a decision made by the Justice Department, by career prosecutors, and all questions about how that process is undertaken should be directed there," he said. "And that is not something the president involves himself in."
SIDEBAR:
JUROR B37 SPEAKS
 MIAMI - Three of the six jurors in George Zimmerman's second-degree murder trial initially favored convicting him of that offense or manslaughter,a juror in the case said Monday.
 Zimmerman was charged with second-degree murder in the fatal shooting of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin last year, but the jury also was allowed to consider manslaughter.
 The woman known as Juror B37 told CNN's Anderson Cooper that when the jury began deliberations Friday, they took an initial vote. Three jurors - including B37 - were in favor of acquittal, two supported manslaughter and one backed second-degree murder. She said the jury started going through all the evidence, listening to tapes multiple times.
 "That's why it took us so long," said B37, who plans to write a book on the trial.
 When they started looking at the law, the person who initially wanted second-degree murder changed her vote to manslaughter, the juror said. Then they asked for clarification from the judge and went over it again and again. B37 said some jurors wanted to find Zimmerman guilty of something, but there was just no place to go based on the law,
 Associated Press
