Iran's English-language news channel Press TV led its 0500 gmt news bulletin on 17 July with a report on the United States' "secret data collection programmes". It said 19 US organizations had filed a lawsuit in a California federal court against the National Security Agency, saying their constitutional rights were violated by the agency's "spying" activities. 
The channel's 0600 gmt news bulletin led with a call by an American civil rights activist for demonstrations across the country. The channel said the rallies were aimed at calling on the government to bring a civil rights case against George Zimmerman, who was recently found not guilty in the death of black teenager Trayvon Martin by a Florida jury.
The channel started its 0700 gmt newscast with a report on the Bahraini government's "crackdown on anti-regime protesters". It said opposition group Al-Wifaq had accused "Saudi-backed Bahraini forces" of attacking the homes of protesters in several towns and villages.
A demonstration in Argentina against a planned agreement between a state-run oil and gas company and American energy firm Chevron was also a leading story on Press TV's morning bulletins.
In another report, Press TV said an investigation had found that Britain's National Health Service had failed to provide sufficient healthcare to patients, causing thousands of deaths. It said the investigation had found a series of problems including poor care, management mistakes and lack of staff at 14 hospitals.
The channel went on to report that the British government intended to maintain and renew its nuclear weapons programme. It said British Defence Secretary Philip Hammond had announced the news after Liberal Democrats published reviews for a less costly programme amid harsh austerity measures. Press TV said the Liberal Democratic Party had described the government's 25bn-pound like-for-like replacement of Trident nuclear weapons system as a "Cold War".
Source: Press TV, Tehran, in English 0700 gmt 17 Jul 13
