With Monday's editorial, "No definition of justice," The Post joined the chorus clamoring for George Zimmerman to be brought up on charges of civil rights violations. In this, The Post joins with those champions of American justice, the Revs. Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson.
America has been steadily climbing out of the "old days," when civil rights violations were abundant and obvious. This is not one of those cases. To repeat the results of the fair and proper trial would do no good.
The Post is saying, along with the above-mentioned black leaders and NAACP Chairman Benjamin Jealous, that since Mr. Zimmerman was found not guilty, we need to punish him for something. TrayvonMartin was black, George Zimmerman was white. Ipso facto, there was a violation of Trayvon's civil rights. That kind of reasoning fails the common- sense test. 
The prosecution brought all its resources to bear to convict George Zimmerman. A jury of six women, most of whom are mothers, found him not guilty. Nobody accused this jury of "nullification," as happened in the O.J. Simpson murder case. George Zimmerman was a local activist trying to help protect his small community. Whatever evidence was presented supported the idea that, if anything, he is not a racist. It will be interesting to see how U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder responds to the facts on the grounds of this case.
DAVID S. MOST
Tequesta
Teach kids how to avoid violence
In response to the Zimmerman verdict, Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat tweeted, "What do I tell my sons?" Mr. Wade, I recommend you tell your two wonderful sons: "In your lifetime, boys, you will encounter a few white, misinformed people who will wrongly and negatively profile you. To defuse a situation, politely and articulately explain your situation. That will teach the 'creepy white dude' a much better lesson than a sucker punch."
TOM DUDEK
Boynton Beach
Outrage doesn't trump self-defense
The George Zimmerman case was flawed in that the rage portion was not decoupled from the self-defense portion.
Yes, the 17-year-old might have been enraged about being followed, and George Zimmerman might have been overzealous in doing so. However, that does not give the person enraged the right to attack the person against whom his rage is directed.
When the rage portion ended and the attack portion started, it was an entirely different circumstance. It became a matter of self-defense, regardless of whether the rage was justified. Therefore, George Zimmerman had every right to defend himself against serious bodily harm or death, so the jury reached the right decision.
However, the charges against George Zimmerman should never have been brought. It resulted in unjust expenses and a ruining of George Zimmerman's life because he did what was reasonably necessary to protect his life. We do not need unjust "show trials."
IRIS SULLIVAN
Lake Park
Racial element of trial appalling
The much-publicized George Zimmerman case has finally come to a conclusion, and I've been appalled by this racially charged case.
Mr. Zimmerman has a racially mixed bloodline, and should be the last person to be accused of racial prejudice. Unfortunately, there has been added to this mix Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson, two men who could never be compared to Dr. Martin Luther King. These two men are professional blacks who have capitalized on their race and have muddied the waters of the Zimmerman case.
I am glad the Zimmerman case is over. It never should have started. I can only hope that our media will get back to reporting the news instead of shaping it.
BERNICE SCHREIER
Boynton Beach
U.S. has matured since King verdict
What a difference 20 years make.
Two decades ago, when two police officers were found not guilty of beating Rodney King (two others were found guilty), south-central Los Angeles went up in flames. Rioting spread to nearby Compton and Watts, and finally to Long Beach, where I lived.
Just blocks from my house, scared shop owners spent nights on their rooftops with guns in hand to protect their property. We weren't allowed out after 9 p.m. The experience made clear what a thin veneer civil order is, and how easily it can break down.
There were similar fears when the Zimmerman verdict was announced. I held my breath, but what happened? Almost nothing but peaceful demonstrations nationwide protesting what millions of people consider a gross injustice. Why the measured reaction? Perhaps the joint news conference by the African-American police chief of Sanford and the white Seminole County sheriff had a calming effect. Or perhaps it was because in the past 20 years, African-Americans have taken their full, rightful place in America's political life, culminating in the election of the first African-American president.
Or maybe it was the collective memory of south-central Los Angeles on fire and the desire not to repeat that horror. Whatever the reason, America has taken a huge step forward in political maturity and today I'm very proud of my country.
LAURA HENNING
Palm Beach Gardens
Doubt reasonable, but a teen is dead
I hope the "wannabe cop" George Zimmerman never becomes a law enforcement officer. Neighborhood watch volunteers are not supposed to carry a weapon, yet Mr. Zimmerman carried a concealed weapon. He called to report and was told not to follow the person in question. He knew the police were on their way. How would you feel if you were being followed by a stranger when you were walking home?
I can understand the jury feeling reasonable doubt about Mr. Zimmerman's guilt, but whose fault is it that TrayvonMartin does not have a life to live?
BELLE RESSLER
Greenacres
Under state laws, verdict no surprise
I was not surprised by the George Zimmerman verdict. Consider the environment of the "stand your ground" law.
I can defend myself with a gun if I feel my life is threatened. So I am walking along a dark street, someone steps out of the dark to confront me and I feel threatened. My life is in danger (?) so I shoot. After the fact, I find that the person only wanted directions.
Does the law say that I must justify my feeling of being threatened? With this law in effect, I can't see how Mr. Zimmerman could have been found guilty, even if we believe the law to be stupid. This kind of thing was bound to happen with "stand your ground." But the Florida Legislature is not thinking about the impact of the law. It is just a matter of time until this happens again.
RAY WICKS
West Palm Beach
Armed volunteers: Stay off my street
Call me foolhardy, but I am glad not to live in a community "protected" by a watch volunteer who does not obey orders and who carries a loaded, concealed weapon. Perhaps what he did does not fit the legal definitions of second-degree murder or manslaughter, but dead is dead. Just keep him away from me.
ELEANOR FRIEDMAN
Jupiter
'Scottish Verdict' more appropriate
"Not guilty and don't do it again" is how the locals jokingly characterize what is elsewhere known as the "Scottish Verdict."
In Scotland, there are three possible verdicts in a criminal case: "guilty," "not guilty" and "not proven," the last being the unique "Scottish Verdict." Although there are problems with this verdict, since it implies guilt with no subsequent option for the accused to clear his or her name, the "not proven" verdict would seem to have been appropriate in the George Zimmerman case, and would have led to less dissatisfaction than the "not guilty" verdict.
ALAN LISOOK
Boynton Beach
Zimmerman won battle, lost war
Regarding the Zimmerman verdict: The jurors were technically correct in their finding. They followed the law to the letter, and are to be congratulated and exonerated on all counts. I offer my gratitude for their effort.
Personally, I believe George Zimmerman knows that what he did was ugly and wrong. May he suffer for the rest of his days for taking the life of an innocent boy to satisfy his skewed sense of justice. He won the battle, but lost the war. Ugly is just plain ugly, no matter how your lawyers present it. And the "Lord" whom George claims to follow is surely disgusted with him as well. He has no reason to be proud of his verdict.
DONNA K. COURTNEY
Tequesta
