MAYOR DE BLASIO delayed by one day his Italian vacation Friday over a problem closer to home: An unarmed Staten Island man's death after a city cop subdued him with a banned chokehold. 
Officer Daniel Pantaleo, with eight years on the force, and Officer Justin Damico, a four-year veteran cop, were both yanked off the street a day after the death of 
, Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said.
Garner's arrest - including his desperate pleas that he couldn't breathe - was captured on a video that de Blasio admitted left him "with a heavy heart."
"It was very troubling," he said at a City Hall news conference. "I watched it the same way a family member would watch it, and it was very sad to watch."
Hours later, the mayor put off his flight for a family vacation in his ancestral homeland.
"He thought it was important to be here ... and consult with community leaders," said a top aide. De Blasio and his family will instead leave Saturday.
The Rev. Al Sharpton planned to host Garner's family at his National Action Network headquarters in Harlem on Saturday morning. Aides said they were unsure if de Blasio would join them.
Sharpton said the one-sided attack by five officers on the Garner was an outrage.
"It's the most inhumane, insensitive display of disregard for the citizens you're supposed to protect that I've seen in a long time," said Sharpton, calling for criminal charges.
The Staten Island district attorney and the NYPD's Internal Affairs Bureau were investigating Thursday's death. Cops accused Garner of selling "loosies" - single cigarettes from packs without tax stamps.
The 43-year-old father, whose rap sheet listed 31 arrests beginning when he was 16, was carrying three full packs of cigarettes and one open pack of untaxed cigarettes when cops moved in, police said.
"The loss of a life is always a tragedy," said Bratton. "Nobody began the day with the expectation it would end the way it did.
"And so it is a tragedy ... that needs to be totally investigated, reviewed and questions answered."
The Garner autopsy results were not in Friday "pending further study," the city Medical Examiner said.
A video shot by a bystander captured Garner's desperate pleas for help as one cop shoved his head into the sidewalk and three others pinned him down - while a fifth cop put him in handcuffs.
"I can't breathe!" he shouted in vain.
The mayor made it clear that what he saw was disturbing.
"But that being said, we can't pass ultimate judgment based on one video," he said.
