Decades after gray seals were all but wiped out in New England waters, the population has rebounded so much that some frustrated residents are calling for a controlled hunt.
The once-thriving New England gray seal population was decimated by the mid-20th century because of hunting, with Massachusetts keeping a seal bounty on the books until the 1960s. But scientists say conservation efforts, an abundance of food and migration from Canada combined to revive the population. 
Environmentalists cheer the resurgence, saying the gray seal boost is good for biodiversity and a boon for popular seal-watch tours in coastal New England. But many fishermen say the seals interfere with fishing charters and steal catch. Beachgoers bemoan the 600-plus-pound seals taking over large stretches of shore, befouling beaches and attracting sharks, which feed on seals.
Some residents of Nantucket are so fed up with the huge seal population that now calls the affluent island home that they have suggested a controlled hunt, similar to the way states manage deer.
Conservationists scoff at the idea of providing amendments to the Marine Mammal Protection Act, which protects seals. They say culling the herd would undo the results of the act.
Nation
New York City says four emergency workers involved in the medical response to a man who died in police custody have been barred from responding to 911 calls. The fire department said Sunday that two EMTs and two paramedics were placed on "modified duty" pending an investigation into 
 death.
An Ohio veteran who hurt his back during the Iraq War is worried a citation will result in him losing his 14 pet ducks, which he says are therapeutic. Darin Welker says officials in the village of West Lafayette told him to get rid of his ducks in May. They cited him for a minor misdemeanor June 23 for failing to comply.
Cooler temperatures and lighter winds are forecast to descend on wildfire-stricken Washington state, helping firefighters battle flames that have been growing unfettered for a week and have covered hundreds of square miles.
World
Philippine President Benigno Aquino III, a known smoker, has signed a law requiring tobacco companies to put graphic health warnings on cigarette packs in a country where tens of thousands of people die every year from tobacco-linked diseases, an official said Sunday.
Compiled from Journal wire reports.
