TEARS FLOWED FREELY Wednesday as friends and family attended the wake and funeral for 

, the Staten Island father who died on a city street after an NYPD cop put him in an illegal chokehold.
Crowds from the Gowanus Houses, where Garner grew up, and relatives from Staten Island packed into Bethel Baptist Church in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, to pay their respects.
Garner, 43, died last Thursday as cops tried to cuff him for allegedly selling bootleg cigarettes on a Staten Island sidewalk. A cell phone recording captured the asthmatic father of six repeating the words: "I can't breathe!" 
One cop can be seen putting Garner in a chokehold, a move prohibited by the NYPD.
The 350-pound Garner, known among his friends and family as a gentle giant, lay in a white coffin inscribed with the words: "

, in God's Care."
He was dressed in a white silk suit with a silk turquoise shirt. His family, including wife Esaw (Pinky) Garner and their children, arrived in a stretch limo about 5:30 p.m. with a police escort.
Garner's mother traveled behind them in her own stretch limo.
Simple floral arrangements surrounded the casket, including one in the shape of a crucifix on the right and a wreath on the left. At the foot of his coffin was a bouquet with a gold ribbon around it reading, "Beloved Brother."
Esaw Garner and two of her sons entered wearing white slacks and turquoise silk shirts that matched those Garner wore in his casket.
The grieving woman had to be helped to the altar to take a last look at her beloved spouse. She collapsed clutching the dead man's body.
"My God, they took him. They took my baby. They took my baby," she sobbed.
Family members carried her to the front pew, where she was able to nod and shake hands as she received a steady stream of condolences.
"I'm going to miss him so much," she said fanning herself in the sweltering heat. "He cared for everybody. He didn't deserve this.
"He was supposed to be my rock," she said breaking down.
"But now he is gone. He will never answer my call. I just want to cry," she said, slumping into the arms of Gwen Carr, 

 mom.
"My son, my son, I love him so," Carr said.
A live gospel band performed for the mourners, giving them an extended version of "Amazing Grace" while they waited for the Rev. Al Sharpton to speak. Handheld fans fluttered and shouts of "Hallelujah!" floated to the rafters as music filled the holy space.
Sharpton arrived at 8 p.m. to deliver his remarks in honor of Garner.
Among those who also came to pay their respects was Kadiatou Diallo, the mother of Amadou Diallo, who was fatally shot 19 times by cops in the Bronx 1999 when they mistook his wallet for a gun.
"It's just so sad. It brings back terrible memories. After all these cases and all these years, nothing seems to change," she told the Daily News.
"It should never have happened, it should have been prevented," she added of Garner's death.
"I'm calling on the new administration, Mayor de Blasio and (Police) Commissioner (Bill) Bratton, to bring about changes," Diallo said.
The medical examiner's office hasn't yet been able to determine a cause of death for Garner, but a preliminary investigation found there were no clear signs of asphyxiation, police sources said.
Garner had a history with police and can be seen on the video waving his arms and yelling at them.
"Every time you see me you want to mess with me," Garner told the cops. "I'm tired of it. It stops today."
The Staten Island district attorney's office Wednesday dropped cases against Garner from 2013 and earlier this year. He had been charged with possession or sale of untaxed cigarettes and possession of marijuana.
Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams, a former cop, who attended Garner's funeral, said the NYPD reaction had been too strong.
"For small nonviolent crimes, conversation is better than incarceration," he said.
gotis@nydailynews.com
