The death of a New York City man who was allegedly placed in a chokehold by a police officer last week has reignited discussions about an arrest tactic that has been outlawed in most police departments and linked to dozens of in-custody deaths. 
The case of 
 has unleashed torrents of criticism. On Saturday, the Rev. Al Sharpton and Garner's family led a march on a police precinct in Staten Island, N.Y.
Four emergency responders have been put on modified duty while authorities investigate their response to the incident, a Fire Department official said Sunday. The two paramedics and two emergency medical technicians will not be allowed to respond to 911 calls, Reuters reported.
Generally, officers in most major American police departments are not allowed to use chokeholds to subdue suspects, law enforcement experts said. But while struggling with a suspect, an officer may look to end a confrontation in a way least likely to result in injury to officer and suspect.
"Struggles between police officers and resisting individuals are not choreographed events," said Wayne Fisher, a professor of police studies at Rutgers University. "They occur spontaneously, and it's quite possible that an officer's arm could wind up around somebody's throat."
Garner was approached by officers who were investigating the sale of untaxed cigarettes Thursday. Videos show Garner, 43, pleading with officers to leave him alone before one applies what appears to be a chokehold. Garner crumples to the ground, according to one video, and says, "I can't breathe."
The New York Police Department outlawed chokeholds in 1993.
At a news conference held the day after Garner died, New York Police Commissioner William Bratton said the maneuver appeared "to have been a chokehold," but said the incident required further investigation.
Eugene O'Donnell, a former district attorney in Brooklyn and Queens, N.Y., said the situation with Garner may not be as clear as many suggest. Garner appeared to be resisting arrest, O'Donnell said.
"In this case the guy is 350 pounds ... on the video, the guy clearly won't allow himself to be handcuffed, and if you look at that particular video, the cops look awfully small compared to him," he said. "So how do you get someone to allow themselves to be handcuffed quickly so he and you don't get hurt? I'm not sure any department has a great secret formula."
jqueally@tribune.com
