THE death of a father of six after he was put into a chokehold by a New York police officer has stoked racial tensions and drawn comparisons to the case of Rodney King, which sparked riots after he was beaten by officers. 
, 43, was grabbed by five officers after being stopped for selling untaxed cigarettes, a low-level offence, on Staten Island.
A shocking video of the incident, which has been watched more than 500,000 times on YouTube, shows him pleading "I can't breathe" as his head is pressed against the pavement. He died an hour later in hospital.
Two police officers and four paramedics have been put on restricted duties amid protests and calls from Mr Garner's family for Daniel Pantaleo, the officer who is allegedly responsible, to face justice.
In the seven-minute video, Mr Garner is heard saying he has "done nothing" and berates the officers for trying to arrest him, telling them: "I'm minding my business, please leave me alone."
Mr Pantaleo and four officers then grab him and they fall to the floor. Mr Pantaleo is on Mr Garner's back with his arms around his neck. The officers can be heard saying "Something's wrong with him" but make no attempt to revive him.
When the paramedics arrive they check for a pulse but appear to do little else before putting Mr Garner into an ambulance. The Staten Island district attorney has announced an investigation which could potentially lead to charges. The NYPD also said it would retrain all its 35,000 officers in how to subdue suspects, and more taser stun guns may be issued to them.
NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton has said Mr Pantaleo used a chokehold even though they are banned by the force and has ordered police Internal Affairs officers to investigate. There have been claims Mr Garner was resisting arrest.
His funeral was held yesterday at a Baptist church in Brooklyn. It followed a Harlem rally last weekend in which civil rights campaigner the Rev Al Sharpton spoke to a crowd which included his widow Esaw, who collapsed in tears. He said: "Even if police procedures don't kick in, when does your sense of humanity kick in? Have we gotten so cold?" New York commentator Denis Hamill said the video was "disturbing proof of how far we have not come since Rodney King". King was beaten by Los Angeles police officers after a high-speed car chase in 1991. The beating was captured on film and the later acquittals of four officers triggered riots a year later in which 53 people died.
New York's mayor Bill de Blasio has delayed a holiday in Italy to also start an investigation. He has pledged to restore relations between police and the black community, who claim "stop and frisk" tactics unfairly target them.
