After 
 died in police custody last week on Staten Island, critics fixed their attention on the chokehold that an officer appeared to use to subdue him during a confrontation.
But in the days since, as another video of the encounter emerged, the conduct of the two paramedics and two emergency medical technicians who responded has also come under considerable scrutiny.
On Monday, the emergency medical workers were suspended without pay by their employer, the Richmond University Medical Center, as the hospital and the Fire Department -- which coordinates emergency medical response citywide -- review the incident. 
The suspensions are the latest fallout from the death of Mr. Garner on Thursday in the Tompkinsville section of Staten Island. The officer who appeared to use the chokehold, a banned tactic, has been stripped of his badge and gun. Another officer, who helped hold Mr. Garner down, has been placed on desk duty. And Internal Affairs investigators are examining the roles of other officers who were at the scene of the fatal encounter.
Officers from the 120th Precinct were trying to arrest Mr. Garner for selling loose cigarettes, but he complained angrily that they were harassing him, and he made clear he did not want to be taken into custody. One of the officers came up behind Mr. Garner, put his arm around his neck and pulled him to the ground as other officers moved in.
Once on the ground, Mr. Garner began to complain that he could not breathe; by the time an ambulance arrived minutes later, he appeared to be unconscious.
The emergency medical workers appear to act without urgency or intensity in assessing Mr. Garner as he lay on the sidewalk outside a Bay Street beauty salon. That response has added to public anger over the death and has fueled criticism by experts in emergency medicine. One concern expressed by some experts is that the emergency medical workers were intimidated by a large police presence and as a result failed to follow protocol.
One medical worker appears in the video to do little more than feel Mr. Garner's wrist and neck for a pulse before helping to lift him onto a stretcher.
''It was like she either didn't want to be there, which is hard to understand, or police basically told her to just let him alone,'' said Dr. Alexander Kuehl, who led the Emergency Medical Services in New York City during the 1980s. ''She certainly didn't do her job.''
In a typical situation, medical experts said, medical personnel would have been expected to ensure that Mr. Garner's airway was clear, to check that he was breathing and to monitor his circulation. Emergency workers' tentative approach, the experts said, may have kept Mr. Garner from receiving vital treatment.
''Obviously, state protocol is that if someone's having difficulty breathing, you're supposed to give them supplemental oxygen,'' said Israel Miranda, president of the Uniformed EMTs, Paramedics and Fire Inspectors F.D.N.Y. Local 2507, which does not represent the workers involved. ''Based on the video,'' Mr. Miranda added, ''I didn't see anything being done at that point.''
It is not yet clear what information emergency medical workers were given about Mr. Garner's condition when they were dispatched or what they discovered when they arrived. Responding to an onlooker's question about why no one was administering C.P.R., a police officer on the video said that Mr. Garner was breathing. Mr. Garner appeared to be unconscious when the first emergency medical technician arrived.
Regardless of Mr. Garner's condition, the medical workers' apparent hesitancy struck medical experts as unusual.
Medical workers in that situation would have been expected to take over the scene by removing Mr. Garner's handcuffs and checking his breathing, Dr. Kuehl said. In this case, he added, surrounded by a large group of police officers, the emergency medical worker may have taken her cue from the officers and skipped critical steps.
''She's totally overawed by the cops,'' Dr. Kuehl said. ''She doesn't do her assessment at all. There was something very peculiar about her approach.''
Despite the police officer's assurance in the video, Dr. Kuehl said, there was no sign that Mr. Garner was breathing, and emergency medical technicians did not appear to check.
Typical protocol would have dictated that emergency medical technicians use an oxygen mask to facilitate breathing for an unresponsive patient, medical experts said, and even apply a cervical spine collar to protect the neck in the aftermath of the chokehold.
The video did not show the emergency medical worker who knelt next to Mr. Garner with any such equipment.
Mr. Garner's size -- he weighed 350 pounds -- complicated the response by both medical workers and the police. But experts said that the medical workers appeared to ignore the risks to Mr. Garner's neck and spine by having him heaved onto a stretcher.
''They did the most inartful transfer of a patient to a stretcher that I've ever seen,'' Dr. Kuehl said. ''If he had a broken neck, he would've had a severed spine no matter what after that.''
Sanford Rubenstein, a personal injury lawyer who has been involved in high-profile cases of police misconduct, said on Monday that Mr. Garner's family had retained his services.
Litigation over the death would be a long way off, but observers say that New York State case law sets a high bar for holding emergency medical workers accountable.
The plaintiff has to show, among other things, that the emergency medical worker knew that inaction could lead to harm.
''You'd think sometimes that the law is a little unkind when it seems so clear-cut that they had a responsibility here,'' said Michael Levine, president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association.
