  Mayor de Blasio refused to change his Italy vacation plans for a potentially crippling LIRR strike - but suddenly delayed the trip Friday amid outcries for a full investigation into how a Staten Island man died after being arrested.  
  "The mayor will postpone the departure for his upcoming family vacation to Saturday, in order to attend to city business," City Hall announced just a couple of hours before de Blasio's scheduled departure. 
  Earlier in the week, when the strike was looming, the mayor argued there was no need to change his getaway plans because "I can be in absolutely immediate touch with all the key figures in the administration whenever needed." 
   One city official said de Blasio felt it was important to stay in the city Friday night to "consult with community leaders" about the death of 
, 43. 
  A City Hall insider said the mayor was also considering attending rallies sponsored by the Rev. Al Sharpton with Garner's family in Harlem and on Staten Island Saturday. 
  A plainclothes cop violated department protocol by using a choke hold while handcuffing Garner, who died in an ambulance immediately after the arrest, Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said Friday. 
  That officer and another cop who arrested Garner were both placed on desk duty following Thursday's violent arrest, Bratton said at a City Hall press conference. 
  "The Richmond County District Attorney's Office is leading the investigation - the criminal investigation - into this matter, assisted by the NYPD Internal Affairs Bureau," Bratton said.  
  Sources identified the two cops who initiated the arrest as Daniel Pantaleo and Justin Damico, but did not identify which one put Garner in a choke hold.  
  "There's a very high chance that the officer who put him in a choke hold would lose his job," said a law-enforcement source familiar with the investigation. "It violates protocol. It violates a direct rule which is never to put somebody in a choke hold." 
  Police said they forced the 350-pound Garner to the ground and piled atop him at 3:30 p.m. in Tompkinsville because he was selling untaxed cigarettes. 
  But witnesses told The Post that Garner was not peddling smokes and had actually tried to break up a fight between two people who ran off before cops arrived. 
  Garner, a father of six and former parks worker, died of a heart attack in an ambulance, police said. 
  De Blasio said video of the arrest was "very troubling." 
  While de Blasio and his family are paying their own way to Italy, taxpayers will shell out about $13,000 for the three staffers joining the trip. 
