The Issue: The death of 

 after cops tried to arrest him for selling cigarettes illegally. 
  The Post thoroughly covered the death of 

 when he was arrested by the NYPD ("A Fatal Arrest," Editorial, July 19).   
  I feel bad for Garner, but he deserves less attention than a child shot by a gangbanger's stray bullet. The press has got it all wrong. The problem with modern cities is not police brutality, but the brutality of our numerous criminals. 
  Why doesn't The Post write more about the rapes, beatings or murders last week? Why doesn't it write about the pain of our injured victims when the criminals were not caught or punished by the cops? 
  Mayor de Blasio promises Garner's family a "full and thorough investigation," while he refuses to frisk criminals in a heated environment of gun violence. 
  Priorities, priorities. New York's are all wrong. David Lawrence  
   Manhattan 
  I enjoy reading The Post every morning, and it is nice to see impartial reporting, especially with matters pertaining to police over-stepping their sworn duties. I was sickened and saddened watching the video and reading the article about that poor man who seemed to be brutally accosted and subsequently killed by an overzealous police officer. He should be facing manslaughter charges.  
  I pray for justice for this poor man's family. He did nothing except possibly sell smokes. It paints a very bad picture for New York City, especially since he was African American and the cops are white.  
  Is it really worth taking the life of a man who, by all accounts, did nothing wrong? I heard him over and over gasp that he can't breathe while being viciously choked.  
  Shame on those cops. This man's family deserves better, as do others in New York. May God bless his soul. Jim Miner 
   Ontario 
  Blame the economy for forcing Garner, like thousands of other out-of-work New Yorkers, to sell street-corner cigarettes known as "loosies" to make ends meet. Excessive taxes on cigarettes have resulted in a growing market for those in poor neighborhoods to purchase one or two cigarettes at a time.  
  Citizens have more to fear from murder, arson, rape, muggings, robberies, auto and identity theft or home break-ins than individuals who sell loosies. Law enforcement should pursue those who commit real crimes against citizens and property, rather than enforcing insane laws outlawing the sale of individual cigarettes. 
   Larry Penner 
   Great Neck 
