A DEFENSELESS dad, lying handcuffed and unresponsive on a sidewalk, received zero medical help from cops who instead just emptied his pockets, a shocking new video shows.
The seven-minute clip posted Saturday on YouTube shows an apparently lifeless 
, whose head droops to the side as at least eight cops stand nearby.
"C'mon guy," one cop says to Garner, the only thing on the video that suggests any of the officers was trying to help the Staten Island man. "Breathe in, breathe out." 
But Garner, on his side with his eyes closed, doesn't move at all - even when the officer slaps him on the shoulder. The side of his head remains flat against the concrete, and his eyes never open.
At one point, another officer is seen taking a cell phone and a pack of cigarettes from 43-year-old Garner's pants.
Even after the arrival of an EMT four minutes into the video, no medical aid is provided to Garner. He's instead just loaded onto a stretcher and wheeled off of Bay St.
Cops say he was pronounced dead a short time later after arriving at a Staten Island hospital.
NYPD Officer Daniel Pantaleo, caught on another video putting Garner in a chokehold, is shown standing a few feet away chatting amiably with a uniformed colleague.
Near the end of the clip, he gives a satiric wave to the person shooting the second video.
Pantaleo, an eight-year veteran, was placed on modified duty Saturday as cops and the Staten Island district attorney investigated the case.
Pantaleo was stripped of his gun and his shield and assigned to work desk duty. The police union immediately denounced the move as "completely unwarranted."
Officer Justin Damico, on the force four years, was also pulled off the street - but was not forced to turn in his badge or his weapon.
Outside Damico's home Saturday, an infuriated woman screamed at reporters.
"Get off my f------ property! F------ retards!" she howled. "One picture of me and I'll sue you!"
While autopsy results on Garner were incomplete, sources told the Daily News there were no signs of neck trauma on the heavyset victim.
One source said the likely cause of death will be a heart attack, although other factors - including the illegal takedown of Garner - "will probably go down as contributing."
Either way, Police Commissioner Bill Bratton was irate after getting a look at the video from the Thursday afternoon tragedy near the Staten Island ferry terminal, another source said.
The investigation will determine in part whether the cops were justified in their decision to jump Garner - and one source indicated they were not.
"Tactically, very little was done right," the source said. "The first two cops (Pantaleo and Damico) didn't engage Garner . . . They appear to know him. Do something to put him at ease."
A sergeant caught standing nearby in the video could be nailed for "failure to supervise," the source said.
Garner's devastated wife Esaw collapsed in the arms of her family with a piercing wail Saturday at a Harlem rally organized by the Rev. Al Sharpton.
"Oh my God!" she shouted before tumbling.
The widow, along with Garner's mother, daughter, and sister, sobbed loudly as Sharpton demanded justice for the family and the late father of six.
"There is no justification at all on this chokehold," Sharpton said. "And there is clearly no reason, when a man is saying 'I can't breathe, I can't breathe,' that you maintain this chokehold."
Mayor de Blasio spoke on the phone with Esaw Garner and the dead man's mother, Gwen Carr.
"Mayor de Blasio called Mr. Garner's wife and mother (Saturday) morning to offer his condolences," said de Blasio spokeswoman Marti Adams.
"He reassured the family that the city is doing everything possible to ensure a full and thorough investigation."
De Blasio also sent Marco Carrion, head of his community affairs unit, to the Harlem event.
A funeral for Garner was set for Wednesday at the Bethel Baptist Church in Brooklyn.
The first video, obtained by the Daily News, captured Garner complaining that he couldn't breathe as Pantaleo applies the chokehold and other cops take him to the ground.
Cops were investigating whether Garner was illegally selling "loosies" - untaxed single cigarettes. He had three full packs of cigarettes and one opened pack of untaxed smokes when police approached him.
At a Staten Island rally attended by about 500 people Saturday afternoon, Garner's sister said the minor transgression hardly justified the police response.
"Many people that own stores sell illegal cigarettes," said Ellisha Flagg. "They lose their license, not their lives."
Sharpton agreed the alleged crime should not become the case's focus.
"The issue is that an unarmed man was subjected to a chokehold and the result is he is no longer with us," said Sharpton.
Garner's rap sheet includes 31 arrests dating to his first at age 16, cops said.
Patrolmen's Benevolent Association head Patrick Lynch warned New Yorkers not to jump to conclusions despite the videos.
rparascandola@nydailynews.com
