LAKE GEORGE
Excavation planned for site of 1755 battle
LAKE GEORGE (AP) - Archaeologists are excavating an 18th-century battleground that was the site of a desperate stand by Colonial American troops. 
"It's a confusing and complicated site," said David Starbuck, the archaeologist who is leading the project during the State University of New York at Adirondack's annual six-week archaeology field school.
It was the site of the Battle of Lake George, fought Sept. 8, 1755, between British Colonial troops and their Mohawk allies and a force of French and Indians. Starbuck said he hopes to uncover evidence of the 1755 battle and the so-called entrenched camp that played a role in the siege and massacre that inspired James Fenimore Cooper's "The Last of the Mohicans."
During the Revolutionary War, the same grounds were believed to have been the site of a smallpox hospital.
TUXEDO
Routine speeding stop nabs shooting suspect
TUXEDO (AP) - New York State Police said Saturday a seemingly routine speeding stop resulted in the arrest last week of a New Jersey man wanted for attempted murder.
Troopers said Eli Hynes of Paterson, N.J., was stopped for speeding on the New York State Thruway in the Town of Tuxedo on Wednesday. They said Hynes, 26, is wanted in Passaic County for attempted murder charges stemming from an April 1 shooting in Paterson.
A trooper who stopped Hynes ran his identification through the National Crime Information Center and learned he was a fugitive. 
Hynes was in custody and unavailable to comment. It wasn't clear if he had an attorney. 
MANHATTAN
Rally honors man put in police choke hold
NEW YORK (AP) - The wife of a man who died after a police officer used an apparent choke hold to bring him to the ground during an arrest burst into tears Saturday at a Harlem rally in his honor.
An overcome Esaw Garner was escorted from the Rev. Al Sharpton's National Action Network headquarters in Harlem, which was packed with hundreds of people. 
Sharpton said the Thursday death of 
, 43, while in custody could strain the black community's relationship with the New York Police Department.
"This is going to be a real test to see where policies are in the city now and whether the change that we feel occurred has occurred," Sharpton said. 
Garner, who was black, was confronted by police trying to arrest him on suspicion of selling untaxed, loose cigarettes on a Staten Island sidewalk.
WHITE PLAINS
Mom charged in death shared son's pain online
WHITE PLAINS - Experts said Saturday the New York case of a mother accused of fatally poisoning her 5-year-old son with salt appears to be an example of how social media feeds into Munchausen by proxy, a disorder in which caretakers intentionally harm children and then bask in the attention.
Lacey Spears is charged with depraved murder and manslaughter in the January death of her son, Garnett, whose sodium levels rose to dangerous levels with no medical explanation. Spears kept friends updated on her son's frequent hospitalizations with musings on Facebook, Twitter and MySpace.
"There are instantly accessible and endlessly supportive groups out there that will pray with you and cry with you if you purport your child to be ill," said Dr. Marc Feldman, a psychiatrist and forensic consultant.
