Most afternoons 
 could be found around Tompkinsville Park, not far from the Staten Island Ferry terminal, hawking loose cigarettes and making conversation. Police officers, too, were a familiar sight in the triangular spit of green where drug deals once dominated and fistfights and shouting matches still occasionally break out.
The cigarette seller and the police were far from strangers: In a city where the authorities are increasingly focused on stamping out petty offenses as a way of heading off larger ones, the local officers had tangled with Mr. Garner time and time again, arresting him for selling untaxed cigarettes at a price far below what local deli owners could offer.
A confrontation on Thursday that started like so many others ended with Mr. Garner's death and an eruption of anger at the police as cellphone video of the clash drew millions of eyes to a changing pocket of Staten Island. Mr. Garner's death on a sidewalk outside a beauty salon on Bay Street threw into sharp relief the tension between two pillars of Mayor Bill de Blasio's law enforcement agenda: mending frayed relations between the police and people in black and Latino neighborhoods, while holding down serious crime by assiduously attacking minor offenses. 
The mayor, upon arriving in Italy on a family vacation on Sunday, found himself once again answering questions about the death. The Fire Department said two paramedics and two emergency medical technicians who responded to the scene had been placed on modified duty while their conduct was reviewed. A seven-minute video, posted over the weekend, showed emergency medical workers doing little more than feeling for a pulse before lifting Mr. Garner's body onto a gurney.
And the police commissioner, William J. Bratton, has suggested that the officers' actions appeared questionable, but he has defended the department's strategies as he grapples with the fallout.
The officer who placed Mr. Garner in what appeared to be a chokehold while trying to put him under arrest, Daniel Pantaleo, was ordered to turn in his badge and gun; another officer who first approached Mr. Garner, Justin Damico, was reassigned to desk duty; and the roles of the other officers at the scene who helped wrestle Mr. Garner to the ground are under review by the Police Department's Internal Affairs Bureau as investigators await the results of an autopsy by the medical examiner's office.
To park regulars and local shop owners, it was devastatingly ironic that the police considered Mr. Garner, 43, a vestige of the disorder that still cropped up in the area, even as drug dens gave way to delis and vacant storefronts filled around the park. To them, he had been a bright spot, a peacemaker who with his size alone could -- and often did -- quell disputes.
A funeral for Mr. Garner is to be held on Wednesday. On Sunday, in pulpits on Staten Island and in Manhattan, ministers called for justice.
''I've heard what is needed is more police training,'' Bishop Victor A. Brown told his congregation at Mount Sinai United Christian Church, a few blocks from Tompkinsville Park. ''The police get enough training; a mind-set is the issue. Enough is enough. Stop killing our people.''
More than 20 miles away in Upper Manhattan, the Rev. Al Sharpton warned city officials that the family of Mr. Garner would explore whether to get the federal government involved, even before the Staten Island district attorney had made a decision about pursuing charges in his death. A spokesman for the district attorney's office did not respond to a call seeking comment.
Mr. Bratton has described Officer Pantaleo's arm gripping Mr. Garner's neck as a chokehold, a banned maneuver in the New York Police Department. The reassignment of the officers and the emergency medical workers came after bystander videos documented the interaction between emergency responders and Mr. Garner. They received thousands of views online, fueling outrage over the episode.
The two police officers were part of a plainclothes team based in the 120th Precinct, which covers the northern tip of Staten Island and some of its most diverse areas. It is also home to some of the borough's most crime-prone streets and housing developments, as well as Wagner College and the Staten Island Yankees.
The police have said the pair were assigned Thursday to address ''conditions'' in the area of the park -- a police term that broadly refers to local disorder and crime patterns but can also indicate particular people who are seen as drivers of crime.
The death of Mr. Garner, who was black, presents a potentially combustible mixture of race and policing for a mayor who promised to improve relations between officers and minority communities. Arriving in Rome, Mr. de Blasio received a briefing from his top aides and told reporters at the airport that delaying his departure by one day to address the death had been ''absolutely worthwhile.''
Defusing lingering tensions has fallen largely on Commissioner Bratton, and he has navigated between describing the death as a ''tragedy for all involved'' and defending, in general terms, the use of force to subdue suspects who resist arrest on minor charges.
''I do not expect my officers to walk away from that type of situation,'' Mr. Bratton said on Friday, noting the local precinct had received numerous complaints about untaxed cigarettes among the hundreds of 911 calls from the area around the park.
Critics of the department have described Mr. Garner's death as among the most egregious results of a ''broken windows'' approach to crime that targets low-level offenses in largely minority neighborhoods. But officials have been quick to describe Mr. Garner's death as an isolated incident. ''This is one particular interaction between two people,'' said Stephen Davis, the chief spokesman for the department. ''You can't judge the whole program on that.''
On Sunday, area business owners said that they were frustrated by the sale of loose cigarettes but that Mr. Garner was hardly a menace.
''He never caused any harm to anybody, unlike a lot of people around here,'' said Adel Abouelala, 22, the manager of the Edible Arrangements store facing the park, who has worked there for two years.
Fadal Ali, another shop owner, acknowledged giving up on selling cigarettes because there were so many men, like Mr. Garner, who could undercut him on the sidewalk. ''I can't make a profit,'' said Mr. Ali, who opened Elegant Grill and Deli opposite the park about four months ago in a spruced-up building once known for drug sales.
But the day Mr. Garner died, he had been trying to break up a fight shortly before his confrontation with officers, said Efrain Acosta, 35, who works at the Boost Mobile store opposite the park. It was the fight, not cigarettes, that drew the police's attention, Mr. Acosta said.
