ROME - Hizzoner and family are on their Roman holiday.
A khaki-clad Mayor de Blasio arrived in Rome Sunday to begin his eight-day family vacation, a day later than scheduled following the death of a Staten Island man in police custody last week. 
De Blasio, First Lady Chirlane McCray, and their kids Dante and Chiara - sporting a new hairdo - landed at the Leonardo da Vinci airport shortly before 11 a.m. local time after flying coach on an overnight flight from Kennedy Airport.
The relaxed mayor, who often speaks proudly of his Italian heritage, came out of customs pushing a roller suitcase and greeted reporters waiting for him at the terminal with a hearty "buongiorno!"
He was supposed to arrive Saturday, but delayed the trip after the death of 
 The cause of his death is still under investigation, but an officer put the 43-year-old father in a chokehold, which is prohibited under NYPD policy.
De Blasio said it was important to tend to the matter in New York before leaving for the multicity tour.
"I spoke to a variety of community leaders, elected officials, clergy from Staten Island and around the city to get a sense of what people were feeling, what they thought we should do going forward," he said. "I thought it was very important to consult them."
The vacation will provide some much-needed family time, he said.
"Time with family is crucial and precious in life, and for the last couple of years that's been hard to come by," he said.
On Monday, his first full day in Italy, he will meet with Italian government officials, as well as the Vatican's secretary of state.
His office tried to work out a meeting with Pope Francis, but the Catholic leader's schedule couldn't fit him in.
De Blasio also took time out Sunday to visit with Rome Mayor Ignazio Marino, a surgeon-turned-politician who took office last year.
The two left-leaning pols had a private meeting at the stately Palazzo Senatorio, the Rome equivalent of City Hall. It overlooks a piazza designed by Michelangelo and is located on the Capitoline Hill.
"I'm obviously honored and pleased to welcome Bill, Chirlane, Chiara and Dante," Rome's mayor said.
During their meeting, Marino said they talked about big issues like immigration and income inequality, as well as the more local concerns that mayors face, like mass transit and sanitation.
One thing they didn't talk about was Rome's thriving horse-and-carriage industry. Marino said the subject never came up.
De Blasio is well known in Italy. His Election Night victory last November was broadcast live in Sant'Agata de'Goti, the small town outside Naples where his family came from, and he is widely seen as a symbol of Italian success in the United States.
His photogenic family also appears to have captured the interest of the Italian media. During the stop at Rome's municipal headquarters, many of the local photographers screamed out "Chiara" and "Dante" in hopes of getting the kids to look their way.
The fashion-conscious Chiara arrived in Italy sporting a new hairdo that featured multiple mini-buns, reminiscent of the Icelandic singer Bjork.
Asked about the new 'do, Chiara laughed and said, "No comment."
