NEW YORK'S top cop on Tuesday ordered the retraining of his 35,000 officers in the use of force as an incensed lawmaker called the death of a dad put in a banned chokehold "murder." 
As protests and cries for justice resounded on the steps of City Hall over 
 demise in police custody, an autopsy on the asthmatic father of six proved "inconclusive."
"This was a murder," state Sen. Bill Perkins declared at a City Hall rally. "Without even being arrested, he was choked to death. It's outrageous. It's unacceptable."
Garner, 43, died after being taken down by cops, allegedly for selling bootleg cigarettes on a Staten Island sidewalk. A cell phone video shot by a witness shows him repeatedly pleading "I can't breathe" after being placed in a chokehold by a cop and piled on top of by other officers.
The incident has prompted a criminal investigation by the Staten Island district attorney and reviews by other agencies. The NYPD banned chokeholds in 1994 after a Bronx man, Anthony Baez, was killed by an officer who placed him in one.
Jumaane Williams (D-Brooklyn) blasted the "omissions and lies" in an internal police report on Garner's case detailed in a Daily News front page story Tuesday. The report failed to mention the chokehold and downplayed Garner's distress.
The city's Citizen Complaint Review Board revealed Tuesday that two people have lodged complaints against NYPD cops for using chokeholds on them in the wake of Garner's death.
In an afternoon press conference, Police Commissioner Bill Bratton called Garner's death "very tragic" and ordered Deputy Commissioner of Training Benjamin Tucker to conduct a "top-to-bottom" review of instruction on the use of force.
"This department clearly needs to do more training," Bratton said. He anticipates "a retraining of every member of the New York Police Department." To that end, he plans to dispatch a team to look at using the LAPD's "state-of-the-art" training as a template.
Bratton spent part of Tuesday meeting with community and religious leaders to discuss the Garner incident, and he headed over to Staten Island to meet with police brass there.
He vowed the probe into Garner's death will be "thorough and comprehensive," but also that it will take time.
Bratton said he met with local FBI officials, saying, "I would not be surprised if the U.S. attorney decides to open a civil rights violation investigation."
He's anticipating civil suit brought by Garner's family.
An autopsy performed on Garner, who was asthmatic and obese, failed to determine a cause of death.
Several hundred people held a vigil Tuesday night in a park near where Garner died, then marched to the 120th Precinct stationhouse.
"Nobody deserves to die like that, not even a police officer," Garner's sister, Ellisha Flagg, said on the steps of the precinct.
Garner's funeral will be held 7 p.m. Wednesday at Bethel Baptist Church in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn.
