S. Korea's most-wanted man hid behind a wall
SUNCHEON, South Korea -- South Korea's most wanted man, whose heavily decomposed body was found in an orchard last month, had evaded arrest by hiding behind an upstairs wall of a wooden cabin, with suitcases of cash at hand, prosecutors said Wednesday.
The body of Yoo Byung-eun, 73, wanted in connection with the sinking of a ferry in April, was only identified this week, more than a month after he was found lying next to a copy of a book he had written, empty bottles of alcohol nearby, ending the country's biggest and most dramatic manhunt. 
"We did all we could to find Yoo and are devastated we couldn't find him alive," Kim Hoe-jong, a senior prosecutor, said at a media briefing in Incheon, the city west of Seoul where the ferry began its last voyage.
For two months, wanted posters offering a reward for Yoo's capture faded under the summer sun or disintegrated in the rain while thousands of police combed the country looking for a man who co-founded a church, held an exhibition of photographs at the Louvre in Paris and did jail time for fraud.
On June 12, the same day farmer Park Yoon-seok found Yoo's body in his plum orchard, thousands of police and prosecutors were busy raiding Yoo's sprawling religious compound.
Yoo headed the family that owned the company that operated the Sewol, a ferry that capsized April 16 on a journey to the holiday island of Jeju, killing about 300 people, most of them high school students, and triggering an outpouring of grief across the country.
Sierra Leone's chief Ebola doctor contracts the virus
The head doctor fighting an outbreak of the deadly Ebola virus in Sierra Leone has caught the disease, one of a growing list of medical workers infected while battling to halt its spread across West Africa.
Ebola has killed 632 people across Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone since an outbreak began in February. A statement from the president's office said Sheik Humarr Khan, 39, a virologist credited with treating more than 100 Ebola victims, has been transferred to a treatment ward.
<hl2 style="briefs_subhead">SF to vote on plan to tax sodas, sugary drinks
SAN FRANCISCO -- San Francisco city leaders late Tuesday approved a measure for the November ballot that would place a 2-cent-an-ounce municipal tax on sodas and other sugary drinks, hoping to become the first major city to impose such a levy.
Other cities have tried and failed to tax sugary drinks. The plan, if passed by voters, would apply to any nonalcoholic, sweetened drink with more than 25 calories per 12 ounces.
3 women charged with supporting al-Shabab
WASHINGTON -- Three women were arrested Wednesday on charges of conspiring to raise money for Somali insurgent group al-Shabab, the Justice Department said.
The women, two living in the United States and one living in the Netherlands, are believed to have directed a network made up primarily of women that funneled money to conduits in Kenya and Somalia, the department said in a statement.
Former Nazi guard, 89, dies before extradition
A former Nazi guard living in Philadelphia died hours before he was ordered to be extradited to Germany for trial on suspicion of helping carry out the Holocaust, according to his attorney.
Johann Breyer, 89, died Tuesday night, Dennis Boyle, his lawyer, told Tribune Newspapers. A federal judge on Wednesday approved his extradition, according to court records. The hospital where he was reportedly being treated would not comment on his death.
The Newsmaker
Senate panel unanimous in approval of VA pick
Bob McDonald, President Barack Obama's pick to run the Veterans Affairs Department, looked set for Senate confirmation after the Veterans' Affairs Committee unanimously approved his nomination Wednesday.
Indonesia runner-up alleges fraud in election
JAKARTA, Indonesia -- The loser of Indonesia's presidential election alleged cheating Wednesday and said he would challenge the results that gave a 6-percentage-point victory to former Jakarta Gov. Joko Widodo.
Representatives of runner-up Prabowo Subianto said an estimated 52,000 polling stations had reported irregularities, putting about 21 million votes in question out of 133 million votes cast. Widodo won by more than 8 million votes.
Iraq postpones vote
for president by a day
BAGHDAD -- Iraq's parliament, which had been due to elect the country's president Wednesday, postponed the vote by a day, delaying the formation of a power-sharing government urgently needed to confront a Sunni Muslim insurgency.
Meanwhile, the Islamic State, an al-Qaida offshoot that is leading the insurgency, claimed responsibility for an overnight suicide bombing in a Shiite district of Baghdad that killed 33, one of the deadliest recent attacks in the capital.
Teen dead, dad missing in bid to fly around globe
A teenager from Plainfield, Ind., who was trying to fly around the world in 30 days, is dead and his father is missing after their small plane crashed Tuesday night near American Samoa, an official told Reuters on Wednesday.
Haris Suleman, 17, and his father Babar were flying in a single-engine plane to raise funds for schools in Pakistan, according to a website where followers could track their progress.
