For more than two decades, all manner of chokeholds have been banned by the New York Police Department. Recruits learn not to use them in the academy; officers are periodically reminded of the ban in training materials. 
But despite its dangers, the maneuver can be effective in subduing a resisting person, and it has been tough to eliminate its use by officers.
On Thursday, an officer gripped the neck of a Staten Island man resisting arrest for selling loose cigarettes, holding him with his arm as they fell to the ground. The man, 
, later died, prompting outrage and setting off a new round of scrutiny of the stubborn persistence of a banned practice.
Mr. Garner's case immediately brought to mind the last time the city focused on a man's death after an officer's chokehold. Then, as now, Commissioner William J. Bratton led the police. It was 1994, not long after the Police Department banned the use of chokeholds, and Anthony Baez was tossing a football with his brothers in the Bronx and struck a patrol car. Soon his neck was pinned in a police officer's grip. According to the city's chief medical examiner, Mr. Baez died of asphyxiation. (The medical examiner has not yet made a determination of the cause of death in Mr. Garner's case.)
A federal jury convicted the officer, Francis X. Livoti, of violating the civil rights of Mr. Baez, 29, who had asthma and was being arrested for disorderly conduct.
Sixteen people in the late 1970s and early 1980s in Los Angeles died in cases in which a chokehold was used. A district court in Los Angeles found that using the practice in situations when serious injury is not threatened ''is unconscionable in a civilized society.'' Since then, legal experts said, the practice largely faded from public view.
Samuel Walker, emeritus professor of criminal justice at the University of Nebraska, Omaha, said that in a case like Mr. Garner's, ''it is extremely hard to get a criminal conviction'' because prosecutors must prove that the officer had criminal intent.
The Police Department's Patrol Guide is unequivocal about the use of chokeholds, saying they are not to be used in any circumstances. But officers are not taught how to subdue a large person, said Joseph L. Giacalone, a retired detective sergeant who teaches at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. ''It's not easy to handcuff somebody when they don't want to be handcuffed,'' he said, adding that officers are also taught not to compress a person's chest by sitting or kneeling on it.
The practice appears to have persisted. From 2009 to 2013, there were more than 1,000 chokehold complaints against officers with the Civilian Complaint Review Board, a city agency that investigates allegations of police abuse. Though all but nine were deemed unsubstantiated by the board, it announced on Saturday that it would conduct a thorough review to determine ''why officers continue to use this forbidden practice.''
The maneuver also has continued nationwide: At least 500 local police departments still train officers on using chokeholds, said Fabrice Czarnecki, a medical adviser to the National Law Enforcement Training Center.
