NEW YORK'S top cop on Tuesday ordered his 35,000 officers retrained in the use of force as an incensed lawmaker called the death of a dad placed in a banned chokehold "murder." 
As cries for justice resounded on the steps of City Hall over 
 demise in police custody, an autopsy on the asthmatic father of six proved inconclusive, and a spokeswoman for the medical examiner said further tests would be needed.
"This was a murder," state Sen. Bill Perkins declared at a City Hall rally. "Without even being arrested, he was choked to death."
Garner, 43, died after being taken down by cops, allegedly for selling bootleg cigarettes on a Staten Island sidewalk. A cell phone video shot by a witness shows him repeatedly pleading "I can't breathe" after being placed in a chokehold by a cop.
The incident has prompted a criminal investigation by the Staten Island district attorney and reviews by other agencies. The NYPD banned chokeholds in 1994 after a Bronx man, Anthony Baez, was killed by an officer who placed him in one.
City Councilman Jumaane Williams (D-Brooklyn) blasted the "omissions and lies" in an internal police report on Garner's case detailed in a Daily News front page story Tuesday. The report failed to mention the chokehold and downplayed Garner's distress.
The city's Citizen Complaint Review Board revealed Tuesday that two people have lodged complaints against NYPD cops in the wake of Garner's death for placing them in chokeholds.
In an afternoon press conference, Police Commissioner Bill Bratton called Garner's death "very tragic" and ordered Deputy Commissioner of Training Benjamin Tucker to conduct a "top-to-bottom" review of instruction on the use of force.
"This department clearly needs to do more training," said Bratton, adding that he anticipates "a retraining of every member of the New York Police Department." To that end, he plans to dispatch a team to look at using the Los Angeles Police Department's "state-of-the-art" training as a template.
Bratton was the LAPD chief when the new training policies were put in place.
Bratton, who met with community and religious leaders Tuesday to discuss the Garner incident and also huddled with police brass in Staten Island, emphasized that Garner's death will not affect his commitment to "broken windows" policing, which cracks down on petty crimes like selling bootleg cigarettes. Bratton vowed it will remain a "key part" of his game plan.The commissioner, who met with local FBI officials about the incident, said he anticipated a civil suit by Garner's family and "would not be surprised if the U.S. attorney decides to open a civil rights violation investigation."
Several hundred people held a vigil Tuesday night in a park near where Garner died, then marched to the 120th Precinct stationhouse.
"Nobody deserves to die like that, not even a police officer," Garner's sister, Ellisha Flagg, said on the steps of the precinct.
