FOUR EMERGENCY workers who responded to the scene of 
 deadly Staten Island arrest have been put on modified duty, the Fire Department said Sunday.
Two NYPD cops - Justin Damico and Daniel Pantaleo - involved in the incident had already been pulled from the street Saturday. 
Garner, 43, died after one officer put him in a chokehold and other cops helped bring him down after his arrest Thursday in Tompkinsville. He repeatedly called out, "I can't breathe," then went still, as bystanders videotaped the tragic incident.
The emergency workers are not Fire Department employees, FDNY spokesman Jim Long said. They are volunteer workers from Richmond University Medical Center - two from its advanced life support unit and two from its basic life support unit. The FDNY did not identify them.
The four have been banned from responding to calls made to the city's 911 call system.
Word of the action against the emergency workers came a day after video footage from the scene showed at least eight cops standing idly by with Garner sprawled on the pavement, not moving.
Even after the arrival of emergency workers four minutes into a seven-minute clip posted on YouTube, no CPR is performed.
Instead, an emergency worker checks Garner's pulse, tells the apparently lifeless man help has arrived and, with several cops, lifts him onto a stretcher. Garner was pronounced dead after arriving at a Staten Island hospital.
The Rev. Al Sharpton said Sunday he is appalled by the coldness of the officers who gave no aid to Garner, arrested on suspicion of selling untaxed cigarettes.
"None of them said, 'Let's stop. He can't breathe,' " Sharpton told a packed house at the historic Riverside Church. "Even if police procedures don't kick in, when does your sense of humanity kick in? Have we gotten so cold?"
The preacher and political pundit compared the Garner incident with the death in 1994 of Ernest Sayon, a 23-year-old Staten Island man who died with a head injury after a struggle with NYPD cops.
"There's a lot different 20 years later," Sharpton said, drawing claps from outraged churchgoers. "There is video this time."
Sharpton said Mayor de Blasio and Police Commissioner Bill Bratton must address anger over Garner's death.
