  A man's death after a possible police chokehold has prompted a sweeping review of the NYPD's use of force - with every officer set to be retrained and teams flown to Los Angeles to study the LAPD's tactics.  
   NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton demanded a "top to bottom" review of police procedure. 
  "The department really does need to do a lot more, a lot more, in the area of training," he said Tuesday. "How do we train our officers for a takedown? How do we train them to use the various levels of force that they're authorized to use: less than lethal, nonlethal, lethal?" added Bratton, the former LA police chief. 
  The commish noted that there have been hundreds - and possibly more than 1,000 - complaints against city cops over neck holds alone in the past several years. 
  Staten Island dad 

, 43, died Thursday after a cop trying to arrest him possibly put him in an illegal chokehold.  
  But the cop, Daniel Pantaleo, may escape serious charges in the case - because his hands never appeared to lock around Garner's neck, police sources told The Post Tuesday. 
  NYPD probers "are trying to determine whether it was technically "a chokehold or a submission hold," an important distinction, because chokeholds are specifically barred under department guidelines, a source said. 
  The rules don't refer to "submission holds," which include headlocks, a common practice by city cops. 
  "That's something that's in play,'' the source said. "If you look at the video, the officer has one arm around his neck and the other arm is hooked underneath Garner's arm. Does this meet the criteria of a chokehold?" 
  A preliminary autopsy has shown that neither Garner's windpipe nor neck bones were damaged in the encounter. Still, the hold around his neck could have caused his death by aggravating the 6-foot-5, 350-pound man's pre-existing conditions, which included diabetes, obesity and asthma, according to sources from the Medical Examiner's Office. 
  Authorities are still awaiting the final results of the autopsy, which may not be completed for up to two weeks while the ME conducts toxicology tests. 
  Meanwhile, the FBI is "monitoring'' the NYPD's probe into Garner's death - and may open its own investigation, law- enforcement sources said. 
  The feds are so concerned about the handling of the case that the head of the FBI's New York office, George Venizelos, personally talked with Bratton, a source said. 
  One of the issues into which the feds would be looking is whether any civil-rights violations were committed by the cops against Garner, sources said.  
  Additional reporting by Kate Sheehy 
  --- 
  'How do we train our officers for a takedown? How do we train them to use the various levels of force that they're authorized to use?' -NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton Tuesday, in calling for the retraining of every city cop after 

 (left) death following an arrest 
  jschram@nypost.com 
