Islamic State: Christians to convert, pay tax or die
BAGHDAD -- Islamist insurgents have issued an ultimatum to northern Iraq's dwindling Christian population to convert to Islam, pay a religious levy or face death, according to a statement distributed in the militant-controlled city of Mosul.
The statement issued by the Islamic State, the al-Qaida offshoot that led last month's lightning assault to capture swaths of north Iraq, said the ruling would go into effect Saturday. 
It said Christians who wanted to remain in the caliphate that the Islamic State declared this month in parts of Iraq and Syria must agree to abide by terms of a dhimma contract -- a historic practice under which non-Muslims were protected in Muslim lands in return for a special levy known as jizya.
"We offer them three choices: Islam; the dhimma contract, involving payment of jizya; if they refuse this they will have nothing but the sword," the announcement said.
A resident of Mosul said the statement, issued in the name of the Islamic State in Iraq's northern province of Nineveh, had been distributed Thursday and read in mosques.
It said Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi set a Saturday deadline for Christians who did not want to stay and live under those terms to "leave the borders of the Islamic Caliphate."
Mosul, once home to diverse faiths, had a Christian population of about 100,000 a decade ago, but waves of attacks on Christians since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion to topple Saddam Hussein have seen those numbers collapse.
Washington wildfires force evacuation of small town
A wildfire burning out of control in Washington state's Cascade Mountains destroyed at least 35 homes and forced the evacuation of an entire town early Friday.
Four separate fires triggered by lightning merged into two Thursday, quickly scorching 15 miles of land and sending flames encroaching on the central Washington town of Pateros, some 120 miles northeast of Seattle, local emergency officials said. Mandatory evacuations were issued for the community's nearly 800 residents.
Typhoon slams into southern China; 1 dead
BEIJING -- A supertyphoon slammed into China on Friday killing one person, as the government ordered an all-out effort to prevent loss of life from a storm that has already killed at least 64 people in the Philippines.
Typhoon Rammasun, with winds of up to 112 mph, made landfall in Wenchang city on south China's island province of Hainan on Friday, the National Meteorological Center said on its website.
Appeals court strikes Okla. gay marriage ban
OKLAHOMA CITY -- An appeals court Friday upheld a lower court decision voiding as unconstitutional Oklahoma's ban on same-sex marriage, drawing on a similar decision it made for Utah.
The decision by the three-judge panel of the Denver-based 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals is the latest in a series of rulings by judges in federal and state courts to find that such exclusions violate the Constitution.
<hl2 style="briefs_subhead">Man dies after being put in chokehold by NY cops
NEW YORK -- A man described as an asthmatic father of six died after New York police tackled him in front of a beauty parlor and put him in a chokehold on suspicion of selling untaxed cigarettes.
The New York Police Department said 
 43, was selling bootleg cigarettes in front of a Staten Island hair salon Thursday and suffered a heart attack while being transported by emergency medical workers to a local hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
The Newsmaker
Texas Rangers names 1st female lieutenant
The Texas Rangers, the nearly 200-year-old law enforcement agency, named Wende Wakeman its first female lieutenant, officials said Friday. On Aug. 1, the four-year Ranger will become the highest-ranking woman in agency history.
S. Africa issues Mandela coins in birthday tribute
PRETORIA, South Africa -- South Africa launched a set of limited-edition gold and silver coins Friday to honor former president Nelson Mandela on what would have been the late anti-apartheid hero's 96th birthday.
The South African Reserve Bank said the set of three coins was a tribute to South Africa's first democratic president's "dedication to life-long learning."
The U.N. designated July 18 as Nelson Mandela International Day in 2009.
U.S. sends 40 children back to Central America
SAN PEDRO SULA, Honduras -- More than 40 Central American children were expelled from the United States on flights to Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador on Friday, as the U.S. government stepped up its deportation of child migrants in the country illegally.
Tens of thousands of unaccompanied minors from the violence-torn countries have been caught crossing the border this year, stretching U.S. border facilities and sparking fierce political debate about how to address the problem.
Army to start gender treatments for Manning
WASHINGTON -- The Army will provide gender identity treatment for Chelsea Manning, a soldier who is serving a sentence in a military prison for leaking classified documents to WikiLeaks, the Pentagon said Friday.
Manning, 26, formerly known as Bradley Manning, had sought to be transferred to a civilian prison to start hormone therapy. She is serving a 35-year sentence at an all-male facility at Fort Leavenworth in Kansas.
