The investigations are not complete and pictures can mislead. But it is hard to imagine that the videos show anything but what seems chillingly obvious: a group of New York City police officers killing an unarmed black man, 
, on a sidewalk in Staten Island. 
Officers confronted Mr. Garner last Friday, accusing him of illegally selling cigarettes. Bystanders' videos posted online show Mr. Garner yelling at them to leave him alone. A plainclothes officer throws a choking arm around Mr. Garner's neck and brings him to the ground. The officer seems to be trying to mash his head into the pavement as Mr. Garner keeps saying, ''I can't breathe.'' Other officers pin his arms, and he goes still. The spasm of violence then gives way to a queasy calm, as officers stand around waiting for paramedics to haul their silent victim away.
A bystander asks: ''Why nobody do the CPR?''
Good question. But Mr. Garner is dead, and the Police Department is caught up in a scandal evoking memories of the overbearing, sometimes brutal policing of the 1980s and '90s, particularly the death of Anthony Baez, choked by a cop for throwing a football around. This is not what Mayor Bill de Blasio promised when he campaigned on restoring tattered trust in police-wary neighborhoods.
Mr. de Blasio and the police commissioner, William Bratton, say there will be a thorough investigation into Mr. Garner's death. The undercover officer, Daniel Pantaleo, had to surrender his badge and gun; another officer was put on desk duty. Two paramedics and two emergency medical technicians were placed on modified duty. The Civilian Complaint Review Board, meanwhile, has promised to re-examine the last five years of chokehold complaints. The board received 1,022 such complaints since 2009 and substantiated nine of them, recommending administrative trials for the credibly accused officers. But, in all but one of those cases, they received the lightest sanctions or no punishment at all. This is not reassuring.
It should go without saying that neighborhoods should feel protected by law enforcement, and that officers should be expert at defusing conflicts and avoiding lethal violence. The mayor and Mr. Bratton were already facing a daunting job in repairing the department's reputation in black and Latino neighborhoods. They can start by determining whether the fatal encounter on Staten Island was a brutal aberration, or part of a larger problem.
