After Mayor Bill de Blasio watched a video of 
 slipping into unconsciousness as the police subdued him last Thursday, he issued an order.
The mayor's top aides were to plunge into what was fast developing into one of the most significant crises of his young administration.
An unarmed black man had died on Staten Island after an officer put him in what appeared to be a chokehold, a move banned by the police manual. Anger was mounting, as video of the confrontation spread online. How the de Blasio administration responded would be a major test, of a sort that for decades has been an unwelcome rite of passage for New York City leaders, including the deaths of Amadou Diallo during Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's administration, and of Sean Bell under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. 
''The mayor said, 'We should put our bodies on the situation,' '' said Emma Wolfe, director of intergovernmental affairs and a longtime confidante of his.
The de Blasio administration's assertive outreach so far appears to have helped contain the initial fallout from Mr. Garner's death. There have been protests, and even calls for Police Commissioner William J. Bratton to resign. And there is still anger, particularly on the northern tip of Staten Island, where Mr. Garner lived and died.
But so far there has been no widespread criticism of Mr. de Blasio, who delayed by one day his departure for a vacation in Italy to discuss the episode with city officials and community leaders.
After Mr. Garner's death, both Mr. de Blasio and Mr. Bratton called the Rev. Al Sharpton, a longtime critic of the police who remains capable of rallying people across the city. They promised him a swift investigation.
Those conversations ''set the tone immediately,'' said Rachel Noerdlinger, the first lady Chirlane McCray's chief of staff, who has been a central player in City Hall's response to the death.
When Ms. Noerdlinger was appointed, her primary job was publicized as strategizing for Ms. McCray, but she has been a key adviser in overall issues affecting the administration. For many years before entering government, she was Mr. Sharpton's closest aide.
And within City Hall, she has quickly taken on an unofficial portfolio: crisis management in matters of racial tension.
She helped coordinate the administration's response, for example, to the fatal stabbing last month of a 6-year-old boy in an elevator of a Brooklyn housing project, where the Housing Authority had failed to install security cameras.
While some mayoral aides played down Ms. Noerdlinger's role in responding to Mr. Garner's death, others said she had been instrumental.
She spoke to Mr. Garner's family twice on Friday. She arranged the mayor's call to Mr. Garner's family on Saturday. And on Sunday she was seated at Riverside Church as Mr. Sharpton delivered a sermon on the encounter.
In an interview, Ms. Noerdlinger said that the mayor and his aides had assured both Mr. Sharpton and Mr. Garner's family that the city's investigation would be ''expeditious.''
The officer who appeared to put Mr. Garner in the chokehold has been placed on modified duty, and four emergency medical responders who appeared on another video seemingly treating Mr. Garner without urgency have been suspended.
Ms. Noerdlinger has had help from other City Hall officials. A team led by Marco A. Carrion, commissioner of the mayor's community affairs unit, attended days' worth of protests on Staten Island, and attended a memorial to Mr. Garner on Friday to speak with residents.
On Wednesday night, Ms. Noerdlinger and Mr. Carrion represented the mayor at Mr. Garner's funeral, sitting in a front pew, feet away from the coffin. But Mr. de Blasio also had circumstances working in his favor: The video of the confrontation made it far less risky for the mayor and his aides to question the actions of the police. He and Mr. Bratton both quickly said that Mr. Garner appeared to have been put in a chokehold.
''This looks like the kind of case that could have produced great anger; keeping the calm, keeping the peace is a high priority,'' said Kenneth Sherrill, an emeritus professor of political science at Hunter College. ''Having the prescience to say 'I share the outrage' is a very rational approach. It may be what's in their hearts as well.''
Mr. de Blasio also benefits from his criticism of the Police Department's stop-and-frisk practices, a stance that helped set him apart in the mayoral race last year and won him support in many black and Latino neighborhoods where the stops were most common.
''I'm excited that our leadership recognizes that there are issues in the N.Y.P.D.,'' said the Rev. Demetrius S. Carolina, pastor of First Central Baptist Church on Staten Island.
Mr. Carolina was among the civic leaders Mr. de Blasio called on Friday, and said he had been kept abreast of the unfolding investigation.
Councilwoman Deborah L. Rose of Staten Island, who is the first black council member from that borough, said she was satisfied with City Hall's performance so far.
''The response has been expedient, it's been thorough,'' she said. ''They have not left my community. I've had total access, and I do feel at this point that it has been transparent.''
