THE GRIEVING son of a man who died after an NYPD officer put him in a chokehold said Sunday he wants to see the cop behind bars.

 son, Eric Snipes, 18, spoke out just hours after four emergency workers who responded to Thursday's tragic scene in Staten Island were put on modified duty pending an investigation. 
Snipes focused his anger on Officer Daniel Pantaleo, the plainclothes cop seen in a viral video putting Garner in a chokehold banned by the NYPD and refusing to let up even when the father of six repeatedly yelled he couldn't breathe.
"He should be in jail. No protective custody, either. Put in the (general) population," Snipes said of Pantaleo, who has been yanked from the streets along with Officer Justin Damico as the investigation into the death of the 350-pound cigarette peddler continues.
Garner's son said he and his family are still grappling with the senselessness of the death.
"I want to ask the man that did it, 'What made you choke him like that?' " Snipes said. "What made him put his hand around his bare neck?"
Snipes also recalled his dad's last words to him the night before he died.
"He was telling me how he was proud of me . . . the first person in my family to go to college," said Snipes, who begins classes at Essex County College in Newark this fall on a basketball scholarship.
As the outcry over Garner's death continued, four emergency workers were put on modified duty, an FDNY spokesman said.
The EMTs are not Fire Department employees, said agency spokesman Jim Long, but are employed by Richmond University Medical Center - two from its advanced life support unit and two from its basic life support unit. The FDNY did not identify them.
The four have been banned from responding to calls - at least until the investigation is completed.
Word of the action against the emergency workers came a day after video footage from the scene showed at least eight cops standing idly by as Garner was sprawled, motionless, on the pavement.
The emergency workers arrived four minutes into the seven-minute clip, yet performed no CPR nor gave Garner oxygen.
One emergency worker checked Garner's pulse and told the apparently lifeless man that help had arrived. Cops and the worker lifted Garner onto a stretcher and he was taken to a Staten Island hospital.
The Rev. Al Sharpton slammed what he called the inhumanity of the officers who gave no aid to Garner, who was being arrested on suspicion of illegally selling cigarettes.
"None of them said, 'Let's stop. He can't breathe,' " Sharpton told a packed house at the historic Riverside Church. "Even if police procedures don't kick in, when does your sense of humanity kick in? Have we gotten so cold?"
Famed pathologist Dr. Cyril Wecht said Garner could have survived had he been placed upright.
"You want to position him in a way to facilitate breathing," said Wecht.
Sources told the Daily News that a preliminary report found no signs of neck trauma, such as a crushed windpipe.
