In the wake of a 43-year-old man's fatal encounter with police officers, caught on video by a bystander, Staten Island District Attorney Dan Donovan promises "a complete and thorough investigation." Mayor de Blasio, calling the footage "very troubling," nevertheless cautioned that "we can't pass ultimate judgment based on one video." 
Those are responsible early reactions by city leaders to a disturbing case that, at first blush, raises serious questions about the use of force. But first blush is not how police discipline is meted out, much less how criminal cases are made. The evidence - from all sides - must carry the day.
Cops approached 
 Thursday afternoon on the suspicion he was selling loose cigarettes on the street. One officer stood a few feet away in front of the large man, who weighed around 400 pounds; one stood to Garner's side.
An argument ensued - with the officer who had engaged Garner in conversation apparently attempting to take him into custody and Garner repeatedly refusing to be arrested. He had been breaking up a fight before they arrived, he said, and was wrongly accused.
"I didn't sell anything," Garner said repeatedly, with frustration in his voice. "I've been sitting here the whole time minding my own business. . . . Just leave me alone."
He continued: "Every time you see me you want to mess with me. I'm tired of it. It stops today!"
At a key point, the video cuts out. When the images return, Garner is facing the second officer. Garner then turns his back to that officer, who places him in what appears to be a choke hold. The two officers, and others who have joined the scene, bring him to the ground.
Inside a scrum of officers, his head pressed against the pavement by an officer when visible, Garner can be heard to say, six times, "I can't breathe."
Chokeholds, said Police Commissioner Bill Bratton yesterday, "are in fact prohibited by the NYPD." And though he could not yet definitively label what the officer did, he did say that "this would appear to have been a chokehold."
Garner, an asthmatic, went into cardiac arrest and died at Richmond University Medical Center. The medical examiner has yet to rule on the cause of death.
Not only have the DA and NYPD Internal Affairs Bureau commenced an investigation but the Civilian Complaint Review Board and new NYPD inspector general will also be probing the incident. If together they cannot produce the "full, thorough, transparent investigation" that Bratton promises, then such an investigation is impossible.
While some are already placing this death in a prepackaged racial narrative, we hope and expect the city has grown and will not so easily succumb to cheap attempts to divide. The moment demands a sober, deliberate inquiry guided not by presuppositions, but facts.
