SEATTLE - A massive wildfire raging east of Washington state's Cascade Mountains showed some sign of calming Sunday, with fire crews saying they had slowed the expansion of a wind-whipped blaze that destroyed about 100 homes and displaced hundreds of people. 
The Carlton Complex blaze did not grow overnight, the first time since the fire was triggered by lightning strikes six days ago that it showed any sign of abatement, local officials said.
Shootings rattle Chicago
CHICAGO - An 11-year-girl was shot and killed during a slumber party as violence struck Chicago over the weekend, local media outlets reported Sunday.
At least 40 people were shot, and four killed, in weekend violence in the third-largest U.S. city, the NBC affiliate in Chicago reported.
The deaths included the girl, shot in the head inside a first-floor bedroom Friday night after someone fired a gun from outside the house, said Chicago Police Officer Jose Estrada.
Responders probed
NEW YORK - Four emergency responders have been put on modified duty while authorities investigate their response to a man who died after New York police put him in a chokehold on suspicion of selling untaxed cigarettes, a fire department official said Sunday.
The two paramedics and two emergency medical technicians will not be permitted to respond to 911 calls while the death of 
, who was 43, is investigated, the fire department official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because he is not a department spokesman.
Mr. Garner's death, the cause of which is still being determined by the city's medical examiner, has provoked outrage.
Mayor Bill de Blasio, who promised to improve frayed relations between police and the public when he took office in January, called the death a "terrible tragedy" and promised a "thorough" investigation.
Ill. pot bill signed
SACRAMENTO, Calif. - Illinois children and adults with epilepsy soon will be allowed to use marijuana to ease their symptoms under a law signed Sunday by Democratic Gov. Pat Quinn, the latest in a series of measures loosening restrictions on cannabis by U.S. states.
The move to add epilepsy and other seizure disorders to the list of conditions legal to treat with marijuana or its extracts comes as numerous states have made medical use of the drug legal. Two states, Colorado and Washington, have legalized its recreational use.
The Illinois law, which takes effect in January, would allow children who experience seizures to be treated with non-smokable forms of cannabis, as long as they have permission from a parent.
Sides to meet on Canal
MIAMI - Arbitration of the first claim in a $1.6 billion dispute over cost overruns in the expansion of the Panama Canal begins today.
It will start with a teleconference to determine procedures, both sides' positions and a timeline. Then the impasse will be resolved by an international tribunal seated in Miami, said Carolyn Lamm, an attorney who is representing the Spanish-led consortium that temporarily stopped work on the canal this year.
Ports throughout the Americas, including those in South Florida, are avidly following Panama's efforts to expand its canal to handle post-Panamax ships that are too long, too wide and too heavy for the current canal. And they've made big plans of their own based on the canal expansion.
