Bulgaria
2012 airport bomber ID'd by prosecutors
Two years after a bomb in a tour bus at the Burgas airport killed seven people, including five Israeli tourists, Bulgarian prosecutors have identified the bomber as a dual French-Lebanese citizen.
The bomber, who was killed in the blast along with the Bulgarian bus driver, was 25-year-old Mohamad Hassan El-Husseini. Prosecutors said he carried out the attack using a fake driver's licence. 
The July 18, 2012, attack, which took place after an Israeli group had boarded a bus following a charter flight, also wounded 35 people. The government initially blamed Hezbollah, but later eased off that claim.
Last year prosecutors said the attack organizers included two other men of Lebanese origin, Meliad Farah, an Australian citizen, and Hassan el-Hajj Hassan, a Canadian citizen. Neither has been arrested.
Iran
Nuke talks extended as deadline missed
Iran and six world powers failed Saturday to meet their target date for cutting a nuclear deal but agreed to extend the talks until Nov. 24 in a bid to overcome stubborn differences over the size and capacity of activities by Tehran that could be used to make nuclear arms.
Months of exhausting negotiations were meant to culminate in an agreement by Sunday that would limit programs Iran says it needs to produce energy and for other peaceful purposes - but can also be used to make nuclear arms. In return, Tehran would have gotten progressive relief from all nuclear-related sanctions on its economy.
"We have made tangible process on some of the issues," said EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton, who co-ordinated the talks in Vienna on behalf of the U.S., Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany. But she cautioned of "significant gaps on some core issues which will require more time and effort."
United States
Police launch probe into chokehold death
The New York Police Department has launched an internal investigation into the death of a 43-year-old man whose final moments were captured in a video in which he can be heard gasping "I can't breathe" over and over again after an officer is seen placing him in a chokehold.
 died Thursday afternoon as plain clothes officers tried to take him into custody on a Staten Island street for illegal cigarette sales. An amateur video, posted on the New York Daily News website, shows an argument of mounting intensity as Garner, who had been arrested on about 30 occasions, quarrels with a plain clothes officer about whether he would be arrested or not.
The video, apparently recorded by a bystander, shows another plain clothes officer suddenly move in and place his arm around Garner's throat, pulling him back before bringing him to the ground.
Garner can be seen crawling forward as the officer hangs on. Soon a voice captured on the video can be heard saying, "Something's wrong with him." Garner cannot be seen moving in the video.
Owner arrested over abandoned corpses
A co-owner of a Texas mortuary was arrested Friday, accused of abusing seven corpses found unattended and in advanced stages of decomposition inside her family's business earlier this week.
Rachel Hardy-Johnson, 35, was arrested on seven warrants at her Arlington home. Police are still searching for her husband.
The two are accused of treating in "an offensive manner" the remains of seven of the eight bodies found Tuesday inside the Johnson Family Mortuary. Records indicate five of the deceased had died in March, April and May.
The building's landlord called police Tuesday morning to report he had found the bodies inside after previously ordering the mortuary owners to vacate the building for nonpayment of rent.
Don't it make
your red crab blue?
A rare blue-coloured red king crab was part of a fisherman's catch earlier this month in Nome, Alaska.
Frank McFarland found the blue crab in his pot when fishing off Nome. It's being kept alive at the Norton Sound Seafood Center until he can have it mounted. The rare crab has become a star of sorts, with people showing up to have their photos taken with it.
Scott Kent, with the Alaska Department of Fish and Game, says he has no idea why the red king crab is blue but suspects it's just a mutation.
Kent says a blue crab "turns up once in a blue moon."
