Boko Harem attacks village:
MAIDUGURI, Nigeria -- Boko Haram gunmen killed many villagers and set homes ablaze in a northeastern Nigerian town just 53 miles from the strategic center of Maiduguri before dawn Friday, according to survivors. Well-armed Islamic extremists attacked Damboa as residents were preparing for the 5 a.m. dawn prayers and the civilian defense fighters could only resist with clubs and homemade shotguns.
More executions in 2013: 
MILAN -- The number of executions worldwide rose last year despite a general global trend toward capital punishment abolition, according to a report released Friday by an Italian anti-death penalty group. The organization Hands off Cain, based in Rome, said Friday that at least 4,106 people were executed in 2013, up from 3,967 in 2012.
Prosecutors clear military:
MEXICO CITY -- Mexican prosecutors said their investigation into the shooting deaths of 22 suspected criminals at a warehouse last month has found that none was shot at close range. Questions arose about the June 30 shootout with military forces in which all of the suspects were killed, but no soldiers died, even though the suspects allegedly opened fire first.
Nuke talks extended:
VIENNA -- Iran and six powers on Saturday extended nuclear talks until Nov. 24, in recognition that their differences were too big to reach a deal by the informal deadline of Sunday.
Kasem's body gone:
SEATTLE -- A judge in Washington state has granted Casey Kasem's daughter a temporary restraining order preventing the famous radio host's wife from cremating his remains -- but it's unclear where those remains are, or whether they've already been disposed of. A lawyer Kasem's daughter Kerri said Friday that when he went to give a Tacoma funeral home a copy of the restraining order, the home said it no longer has the remains. His daughter wanted the body autopsied.
Video shows fatal arrest:
NEW YORK -- A New York City man died during an arrest -- partially captured on amateur video -- during which a police officer placed him in what appeared be a choke hold as several others brought him to the ground and struggled to place him in handcuffs. Internal affairs investigators and prosecutors opened inquiries into 
 Thursday evening death outside a Staten Island beauty salon. Garner, 43, had a heart attack as he struggled with officers trying to arrest him on suspicion of selling untaxed cigarettes, police said.
Dad, son hikers' bodies found:
DENVER -- The discovery of remains on Colorado's Mount Evans has brought an end to weeks of searching for a father and son from Minnesota who disappeared in April after apparently setting out on a hike up one of the state's tallest mountains. Authorities confirmed Friday that the remains found Thursday by searchers on the 14,265-foot-peak were that of Damian McManus, 51, and Evan McManus, 18, of St. Louis Park, Minnesota.
Reporter pulled after tweet:
NEW YORK -- CNN has pulled reporter Diana Magnay out of the Middle East after she referred to a group of Israelis who had allegedly threatened her while reporting on Gaza as "scum" in a tweet.
Court rules for drone use:
HOUSTON -- A Texas-based group involved in searches for missing persons around the nation said it will resume using drones in its work after a federal appeals court ruled on Friday that a warning the group received to stop using them didn't have any legal consequences. Texas EquuSearch had sued the Federal Aviation Administration, seeking to overturn what the group described as an order it had been sent in February by email prohibiting the nonprofit organization from using drones.
Gay marriage licenses halted:
DENVER -- Colorado's Supreme Court on Friday ordered the Denver County clerk to stop issuing marriage licenses to gay couples while the state's ban against the unions remains in place.
Denver Clerk & Recorder Debra Johnson, one of three county clerks in Colorado who began issuing licenses to same-sex couples after a string of legal victories for gay marriage, responded on Twitter: "Disappointed, but respect ruling."
Actor, Macy's settle suit:
NEW YORK -- Rob Brown, a black actor who accused Macy's of racially profiling minorities as shoplifters, is settling his civil rights lawsuit, one of several cases that drew attention last year to long-simmering complaints about how big retailers treat minority customers. Macy's wouldn't discuss the terms.
saying only that it values every customer and remains "committed to ensuring that every individual who steps into our store feels welcome and appreciated."
Brown appears on the HBO drama series "Treme" and has acted in films such as "Coach Carter" and "Finding Forrester." He said he was falsely accused of credit card fraud at Macy's flagship store after buying a $1,300 watch for his mother for her college graduation in June 2013.
He was handcuffed, held for almost an hour in a store detention cell and grilled about the watch by men who mocked the idea that he could afford it, but he was then released without any charges, according to his court complaint.
"I believe that I was profiled," Brown said last fall.
His lawsuit was among a series of complaints by black shoppers that spotlighted questions about security practices and profiling at Macy's and other major retailers in the city. Years earlier, Macy's had paid a $600,000 fine and promised changes after the state attorney general made similar claims.
The new allegations against the store immortalized in "Miracle on 34th Street" stirred outrage among civil rights advocates.
A Venezuelan tourist was accused of shoplifting at Macy's after she said she was just carrying items around the store, but she was acquitted. Her lawyer said she was detained for more than six hours as her 12-year-old son waited, not knowing where she was. In another case, prosecutors dropped charges against a Pakistani shopper who said she was unfairly profiled and falsely accused of stealing jewelry.
In December, Macy's and several other major retailers agreed to create and publicize a customer bill of rights that explicitly prohibits profiling and unreasonable searches.
Macy's said in its statement that it also had reached agreements to settle other racial profiling lawsuits. At least eight shoppers have filed such suits.
------
Reach Jennifer Peltz on Twitter (at)jennpeltz.
