A New York City police officer involved in the arrest of a man who died in custody after being placed in an apparent chokehold has been stripped of his gun and badge and placed on desk duty, police said Saturday. 
Officer Daniel Pantaleo, an eight-year NYPD veteran, and an officer who has been with the force for four years were both taken off the street after the death Thursday of 43-year-old 
 on Staten Island, police said.
The department would not identify the second officer but said he would retain his gun and badge while on desk duty.
Patrick Lynch, the president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, the city's largest police union, called Pantaleo's reassignment a "completely unwarranted, knee-jerk reaction."
Partial video of the encounter obtained by the New York Daily News shows the 6-foot-3, 350-pound Garner becoming irate and refusing to be handcuffed as officers tried to arrest him on suspicion of selling untaxed, loose cigarettes on a sidewalk.
The video then shows one of the officers placing Garner in what Police Commissioner William Bratton said Friday appeared to be a chokehold. The tactic, which can be fatal, is prohibited by departmental policy.
The department disclosed Pantaleo's reassignment hours after Garner's wife, Esaw, burst into tears at a Harlem rally where the Rev. Al Sharpton said that the death could strain the black community's relationship with the Police Department.
"This is going to be a real test to see where policies are in the city now and whether the change that we feel occurred has occurred," Sharpton said, referring to promises made by Mayor Bill de Blasio and Bratton to improve the relationship between officers and the city's minority communities. "We are the only ones in the social setup that has to deal with fear of cops and robbers."
Nation
Texas Gov. Rick Perry is visiting Iowa for the fourth time in eight months this weekend, hoping for a second chance to win over Republican voters who delivered him a stinging caucus loss when he ran for president two years ago.
US Airways mechanics and ground workers Saturday approved a three-year contract with American Airlines. The contract, which covers 11,000 workers represented by the International Association of Machinists, includes furlough protection and 3 percent raises in each year of the contract.
An appeals court Saturday granted Arizona death-row inmate Joseph Wood's request to postpone his execution until prison officials reveal the two-drug combination that will be used to put him to death. Wood is scheduled to be executed for the 1989 shooting deaths of his estranged girlfriend and her father.
World
Russia has placed a U.S. lawmaker and 12 other people connected with the Guantanamo Bay detention camp and the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq on its list of those banned from entering the country. A Foreign Ministry spokesman said Saturday that Rep. Jim Moran, D-Va., was banned in response to the July 2 U.S. ban on a Russian parliament member.
Journal Wire Reports
