NeW York City
Minister seeks justice  for victim of chokehold
NEW YORK (AP) - In a Sunday appeal from the pulpit, the Rev. Al Sharpton demanded justice for a man he said was choked to death by New York City police but added that citizens who attack police officers also should be held accountable. 
The activist minister and television host spoke at Manhattan's Riverside Church three days after the death of 
 on a Staten Island street.
Garner was "choked by New York City policemen," the Harlem preacher told the congregation. "What bothers me is that the nation watches a man say 'I can't breathe' and the choking continues, and police surround him and none of them even say, 'Wait a minute, stop! He can't breathe!' "
"When does your sense of humanity kick in?" he asked.
The officer linked to what the police commissioner has said was an apparent chokehold has been stripped of his gun and badge and placed on desk duty.
Albany
2009 terror arrests studied in documentary
ALBANY (AP) - A new documentary examines what led to the 2009 arrests on terrorism charges of four Hudson Valley men.
The men were approached by an FBI informant and asked to join his plans to bomb a Jewish synagogue and shoot down U.S. military planes.
The documentary, airing 9 p.m. today on HBO, includes footage from FBI cameras showing informant Shahed Hussain promising to pay $250,000 to the men, who were poor and from Newburgh.
Director David Heilbroner, a former Manhattan prosecutor, examines whether the FBI, under pressure after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, solicited hapless, reluctant participants.
Hussain was the FBI's informant a few years earlier in Albany where a similar sting resulted in convictions of a local imam and pizzeria owner.
Albany
Schumer to lower cost of pet prescriptions
ALBANY (AP) - U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer says pet owners could save millions of dollars on prescriptions for their animals if they could buy the drugs at ordinary pharmacies. 
The New York Democrat says Sunday that he's working with U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut on legislation that would require veterinarians to write prescriptions to allow owners to buy the medication at a pharmacy or online.
Schumer says many owners pay too much for pet medications because veterinarians don't provide prescriptions unless asked and sell the drugs themselves at much higher prices than pharmacies. He says pet owners in the U.S. spend $10 billion each year on pet medications and other health-related products.
