A top de Blasio administration lawyer infuriated cops by tweeting about how the city failed NYPD chokehold victim 

 - even as the investigation into his death remains open.  
"RIP 

," wrote Ian Bassin, a deputy counsel who earns $140,000 a year. "You deserved so much more from our City. We will and we must do better." The premature July 19 posting on his personal Twitter page enraged cops, who are under fire over the death even before an official autopsy report. "That is crazy. This administration is filled with a bunch of liberal loonies," said one police source. "I don't understand how someone who represents the mayor could go public with a statement like that without the autopsy report." The tweet came just two days before Mayor de Blasio stressed the need to let the investigation take its course before rushing to judgement. "All sides need to be heard and all evidence looked at," de Blasio said Monday while vacationing in Italy. Bassin declined to discuss the tweet when reached by phone Wednesday, and the mayor's office also refused comment. Garner, a 350-pound asthmatic diabetic, died struggling with police July 17 in Staten Island when they tried to arrest him for peddling "loosie" cigarettes. Police Officer Daniel Pantaleo placed Garner, 43, in an apparent chokehold before he and fellow cop Justin Damico dragged him to the ground. He went into cardiac arrest and died on the way to a hospital. An initial police report noted that two supervising sergeants failed to tell Internal Affairs investigators about the chokehold - but sources said they were unaware the move had been used because they got to the scene after Garner was already on the ground, said a high-ranking police source. Sergeants Kizzy Adonis and Dhanan Saminath were never informed by the officers about how they took down Garner, who was still breathing while lying unconscious on the ground at the time, the source said. Internal Affairs detectives are still trying to determine whether Pantaleo applied a forbidden chokehold or if it was a submission hold that may fall within departmental guidelines. Authorities are also still awaiting the final results of Garner's autopsy, which could take up to two weeks while the medical examiner performs toxicology tests. Meanwhile, NYPD Internal Affairs is investigating another apparent chokehold, which was caught on video in a Harlem subway station. Police saw Ronald Johns, 23, go through a service-entrance gate on Lexington Avenue and East 125th Street around 5 p.m. on July 14 - and struggled to arrest him when he refused to show ID, officials said.  A video shows an officer punch him in the face and use either a headlock or chokehold to get him under control. A community activist in East Harlem said the video was sent to him anonymously. It was also posted to Facebook.  2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.
