  The forbidden chokehold used by a cop to take down a Staten Island man in a deadly encounter did not damage his windpipe or neck bones, sources said. 
  The preliminary autopsy findings could be welcome news for Police Officer Daniel Pantaleo, now named as the cop who wrapped his arm around 
 throat while trying to arrest him Thursday. 
  "If you're the defense counsel in this case, this is very good news, because it's consistent with what appears to be the case - that they didn't mean to hurt him," said John Jay College Professor Eugene O'Donnell.  
  But a source close to the ME investigation said coroners are also investigating whether the chokehold still caused Garner's death by aggravating his pre-existing conditions of obesity, asthma, and possible heart disease. 
  "If an obese person with co-existing medical problems can't get good oxygenation to begin with, then a chokehold could put him over the edge," and lead to a homicide finding, the source said. 
  Pantaleo has been placed on modified duty, his shield and gun taken. Saturday, cops gathered evidence at his Staten Island home, leaving with a long, narrow box and three bags. 
  The eight-year NYPD veteran, along with Police Officer Justin Damico, a four-year vet, had been on patrol for "conditions" such as drug use, public intoxication and illegal cigarette sales at about 5 p.m. Thursday when they spotted the 6-foot-5, 350-pound Garner at his usual perch at Bay Street and Victory Boulevard in Tompkinsville. 
  The cops saw him sell a "loosie" to a man in a red shirt, law-enforcement sources said. Garner was known to hawk untaxed cigarettes for 50 cents apiece, and had eight arrests for the offense. 
   Witnesses claimed Garner had done nothing but break up a fight prior to the officers arriving.  
  "The guy got punched in the back, and [Garner] jumped up to break it up," said Ramsey Orta, 22. "I know he didn't sell a cigarette because the guy in the red shirt, who got punched, asked me for a cigarette." 
  In the videotaped confrontation, Garner is heard hollering at the two cops, "Every time you see me, you try to mess with me. I'm tired of it. This ends today." 
  As the cops move in, Garner protests, "Please don't touch me." 
  The plainclothes, 5-foot- 10 Pantaleo then steps behind Garner, wraps his arm around his neck and pulls him to the sidewalk. As other cops join the scrum, Pantaleo is seen pushing the suspect's head against the sidewalk as Garner repeatedly gasps, "I can't breathe! I can't breathe!" 
  Garner, an asthmatic who had a long rap sheet of more than 30 petty crimes, along with three open cigarette-sales cases, died of cardiac arrest en route to a hospital. 
  NYPD protocol prohibits the use of chokeholds.  
  Even without damage to the throat, "the chokehold alone is pretty damning," said civil rights lawyer Ronald Kuby. 
  But Patrick Lynch, head of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, urged New Yorkers to "[give] our police the benefit of the doubt when a tragedy occurs in the performance of their duty." 
  "The department's modification of this police officer under these circumstances is a completely unwarranted, kneejerk reaction for political reasons and nothing more," Lynch added. 
  The death prompted 250 people to rally on Staten Island Saturday, as Garner's outraged family marched with the Rev. Al Sharpton and several politicians from a community center to the 120th Precinct station house. 
  "A cigarette, really? A cigarette? Are you serious?" Garner's sister, Ellisha Flagg, told the crowd.  
  "Many people who own stores sell illegal cigarettes. They lose their license, not their lives." 
  Garner's mother, Gwen Carr, said, "They shouldn't have did this to my son. My son never [hurt] a soul. Never." 
  Some of the marchers chanted "NYPD KKK." 
  The family took a condolence call from Mayor Bill de Blasio, who delayed an Italian vacation by a day because of the incident.  
  He "reassured the family that the city is doing everything possible to ensure a full and thorough investigation," said spokeswoman Marti Adams. 
  Additional reporting by Georgett Roberts, Jennifer Bain, Michael Gartland and Kevin Fasick 
