I was in Michigan last week, and the lead story in the Detroit papers was the trial of a 55-year-old man who was awakened at 4:30 in the morning last November by somebody pounding on his door and walls.
He didn't have a land line, and said he couldn't find his cellphone, so he grabbed a shotgun from his closet. He opened his front door and saw a person on his porch. He shot through the screen door. 
The person on his porch was a 19-year-old woman. She was intoxicated. She had been in an accident three hours earlier and had wandered away. She was killed by the shotgun blast.
The man was white and the woman was black. The man was convicted of second-degree murder last week, and the headline in one of the papers was a quote from the woman's mother. "Her Life Mattered."
From the coverage in the papers, you'd have thought this was the first fatal shooting in Detroit in years.
But, of course, it wasn't. Detroit is like St. Louis. Murders are commonplace. What made this one so sensational was the racial angle. Still, why did this victim's life matter more than the lives of all the other victims?
I thought of a column "Donnybrook" panelist Alvin Reid wrote a couple of weeks ago. This newspaper had just published a cartoon of St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley sitting at his desk with Harry Truman's famous slogan in front of him - "The buck stops here." In the cartoon, Dooley had scratched off the final word.
Some of Dooley's supporters claimed the cartoon was racist, and that Dooley was being called a buck. I thought their contentions were ridiculous.
Reid wrote that as soon as he saw the cartoon, he thought the paper should not have published it. He compared it to an autostereogram. That is an illustration that has a hidden image in it. Not everybody can see it, he wrote. Maybe because I miss a lot of things, I liked that analogy.
I thought about it again when I returned from vacation and Ferguson was on fire.
I can readily understand the black community's anger in the wake of the shooting of 18-year-old Michael Brown. I like to give cops the benefit of the doubt, but I have a very hard time trying to figure out a justification for this shooting. Even if you accept the police version of events, the officer got out of his car and fired at an unarmed person. Maybe you shoot Carlos the Jackal if you think he might escape, but Michael Brown doesn't appear to have been an international terrorist.
Then, too, there is the notion of being shot to death by the people who are supposed to protect us. Plus, of course, you have to factor in the long-standing animosity between law enforcement and young black males.
So, yes, I understand the anger and consider it justifiable. (Not the looting, though. I heard St. Louis Alderman Antonio French on the radio saying that the white community would be wrong to consider it thuggery and leave it at that. French is smart and thoughtful, and all things are complicated, but looting as a form of righteous protest is beyond me. Maybe it's an autostereogram.)
But here is where I really get lost: Why not get angry at all the other killings?
When a community gets together and rises up, it has power. In this case, the authorities are not going to be able to sweep this shooting under the rug. No way. Authorities in Detroit were not able to ignore the shooting of that 19-year-old woman.
And yet, had that young woman been shot a couple of hours earlier by a young black man, it would not have been big news.
Had Michael Brown been shot a couple of hours later by a young black man, his killing would have been scarcely noted. Not by the media, and not by the black community. No marches, no protests, no nothing.
It is not condoning police shootings to point out that they constitute a minuscule fraction of the shootings that ravage black neighborhoods. It's not the cops, and it's not the Klan. It's the residents themselves.
If the black community would come together on those shootings and say, "No more," there would be no more. Where was the outrage when 11-year-old Antonio Johnson was shot to death as he sat in his apartment doing homework in March? The gunman climbed to the window ledge and fired into the apartment. There were three teens in that apartment. Presumably, one was the intended target. I say presumably because the family did not cooperate with the police.
No celebrities came to town to demand justice for Antonio. In fact, nobody said much.
It's another autostereogram. I can't see the picture.
