St. Louis County Executive Charlie A. Dooley and county Police Chief Jon Belmar were absolutely correct on Monday to ask the FBI to help investigate the fatal shooting Saturday of 18-year-old Michael Brown by a Ferguson police officer. 
This process won't be quick, nor will it satisfy the understandable anger of those in Ferguson's African-American community who are enraged by Mr. Brown's killing. But getting it right is more important than getting it fast. As we've seen since Saturday afternoon, getting it fast often means getting it wrong.
At midday Monday, the only thing known for sure was that Mr. Brown was unarmed and that he was shot multiple times as he was attempting to flee an encounter with an as-yet-unidentified police officer. That much alone is profoundly disturbing.
Were he and a companion merely stopped for walking in the middle of the street in the 2900 block of Canfield Drive near West Florissant Avenue? Was the police officer shoved into his patrol car? Was there a struggle for the officer's weapon? Was there a gunshot in the car? This is the account offered by both the Ferguson and St. Louis County police departments, but eyewitness accounts differ.
Patience, in the face of what looks like a grievous injustice, is hard. But let's get it right.
What happened Saturday night into Sunday in the wake of shooting cannot be excused. To say that burning and looting is somehow the proper response to a young man's death is to trivialize that death.
The advent of social media enabled people from thousands of miles away to weigh in on the events in Ferguson this weekend. The killing of an unarmed black kid by a cop, followed by looting and civil unrest, is a great opportunity for facile or inflammatory commentary.
It does no disservice to the Ferguson and county police departments to say they were overwhelmed by the fast-breaking events. In a highly charged atmosphere, with random gunshots and flying rocks, officers in riot gear generally reacted professionally.
But Ferguson officials and county police did a poor job of disseminating information. Rumor filled the gaps. The city and county police train for mass casualty events; if getting ahead of the information environment isn't a priority, it should be. In the county, with its five dozen law enforcement jurisdictions, some of which are barely competent, information flow is uneven at best.
One lesson from this weekend is that the county must move quickly to centralize command and control for major emergencies. Fast, accurate information is part of that. It's harder now than ever before to do that, but even more critical.
