WASHINGTON: Protesters clashed with police and looted stores in a suburb of St Louis after an officer shot dead an unarmed black teen, local media reported yesterday.
Police armed with clubs hurled teargas and deployed officers with dogs to curb the violence that erupted late on Sunday in Ferguson, in the Midwestern state of Missouri. 
But local law enforcement officers were quickly overwhelmed and had to urgently call for back-up from nearby communities, according to KSDK TV 5.
A video posted by the St Louis Post-Dispatch showed a service station convenience store plundered and set on fire.
Looters also raided a Walmart and several other smaller stores, and set fires elsewhere, the newspaper reported.
The violence broke out after large crowds of mostly African-American protesters gathered on Sunday for a vigil at the spot where 18-year-old Michael Brown died.
Details of Brown's death differ. A witness told KMOV News 4 that he was walking with Brown when a police officer confronted them and drew his weapon.
The officer shot Brown, who "turned around and put his hands in the air", Johnson said.
"He started to get down and the officer still approached and fired several more shots."
St Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar, however, said Brown was killed after physically assaulting a police officer and struggling to get his weapon.
Belmar did not say whether the officer was white, but the Post-Dispatch said the incident brings to light the tension between the mostly white local police force and the African-American community.
The St Louis County chapter of the NAACP civil rights group said it had launched an investigation and called for a meeting yesterday "in response to the recent murder of Mike Brown".
Brown's grief-stricken mother, Lesley McSpadden, told KMOV TV that her son had just graduated from high school and planned to attend college.
"Do you know how hard it was for me to get him to stay in school and graduate? You know how many black men graduate? Not many," she said.
"Because you bring them down to this type of level, where they feel like they don't got nothing to live for anyway."
Brown's family have hired attorney Benjamin Crump to represent them, the Post-Dispatch said.
Crump is the lawyer who represented the family of Trayvon Martin, the black teen shot and killed in Florida by George Zimmerman, a neighbourhood watchman, in February 2012. - Sapa-AFP
