FERGUSON, Mo. The police chief here on Wednesday offered some details of the shooting death of an 18-year-old African-American man by one of his officers. 
The police chief, Thomas Jackson, said that minutes before the shooting on Saturday, the officer and the young man, Michael Brown, had engaged in a violent confrontation, in which the officer was hit in the face.
"The side of his face is swollen," Jackson said at a news conference, adding that the officer, who has been put on administrative leave, was treated at a hospital.
Jackson has not released the name of the officer, citing fears for his safety and that of his family. The police say Brown was shot after he assaulted the officer and tried to take his gun - an account disputed by a witness, a friend of Brown's who said his hands were raised when the last of several shots were fired.
The FBI has opened a civil rights inquiry into the shooting, and the case is being investigated by the St. Louis County Police.
The selective release of information about the shooting, especially the anonymity granted the officer, has stoked frustrations in this largely African-American community north of St. Louis.
On Wednesday, the St. Louis County medical examiner's office said that it would take two to three weeks to complete the autopsy of Brown, including a toxicology report, which is standard procedure in such deaths, said Suzanne McCune, a forensic administrator at the office.
McCune said that a preliminary autopsy was completed Monday and that Brown's body had been released to his family. McCune said the police department would decide whether to approve the release of the report once it is complete.
Benjamin L. Crump, a lawyer representing the Brown family, said that arrangements were being made for a private autopsy to be performed in the next week or so. "The family wants an autopsy done by somebody who is objective and who does not have a relationship with the Ferguson police," Crump said. ?
After a third night of protests in Ferguson in which the police fired tear gas at protesters, the city's mayor and the City Council posted a letter Wednesday on the city website asking protesters to limit their demonstrations to daylight hours. A police spokesman said the request did not amount to a curfew.
