Tensions between the authorities and minority groups in a city in midwest America reached a new high after police shot dead an unarmed black man, sparking riots and looting.
St Louis, Missouri, was counting the cost of Sunday night's rioting, which saw a convenience store pillaged and burnt and a clothes store, mobile phone shop and branch of Walmart robbed by armed and masked men taking advantage of the tension. Thirty two people were arrested. 
James Knowles, the mayor of the predominantly black suburb of Ferguson, appeared on local television to say that a peaceful protest planned for last night had been cancelled and that any people who gathered would be arrested. "Last night, everything lost control," he said. "Right now, the small group of people are creating a huge mess. Contributing to the unrest that is going on is not going to help."
The violent scenes followed an uneasy stand-off outside a local police station after Michael Brown, 18, was shot dead on Saturday.
Details of his death are still not clear, but Mr Brown and a friend were said to have been involved in a scuffle with a police officer.
According to Jon Belmar, the police chief, the officer involved was pushed back into his patrol car by Mr Brown or the other youth. A shot was fired from the officer's gun inside the car. The scuffle spilled into the street and Mr Brown was shot several times about 35ft from the car.
Witnesses said that the incident appeared to have started when the officer objected to the pair walking down the middle of the street. After a verbal confrontation, the officer was reportedly trying to get Mr Brown into his car when the scuffle began.
Piaget Crenshaw, 18, said that the officer fired as the teenagers ran away. She said Mr Brown turned and held up his hands to show that he was unarmed but was hit by two more shots and died in the street. The officer has been suspended.
Mr Brown's family have enlisted the lawyer who acted for the family of Trayvon Martin, the teenagershot dead in Florida in 2012 by security guard George Zimmerman.
That case, which ended with a jury clearing Mr Zimmerman of murder, led to a period of soul-searching about the way in which the US justice system treated young black men.
However, the Trayvon Martin case did not lead to scenes of unrest.
America's sluggish economic recovery has left St Louis lagging behind, and Mr Brown lived in a suburb that has more deprivation than elsewhere in the city. He had been due to start at a local college yesterday. His mother, Lesley McSpadden, who learnt of his death when she was sent a picture of him lying in the street, said: "Do you know how hard it was for me to get him to stay in school and graduate? You know how many black men graduate? Not many. Because you bring them down to this type of level, where they feel like they don't got nothing to live for anyway."
James Clark, vice president of the St Louis charity Better Family Life, said: "We have neglected the urban areas for decades now, so you have individuals who are tired, angry, frustrated and who have a very short fuse. After the dust settles, we need to develop strong, aggressive outreach programmes."
