FERGUSON o Tension stayed high and raw Monday as the St. Louis region waited for answers in the fatal shooting of an unarmed teenager by a municipal police officer.
In another day of fast-moving events, the FBI promised to investigate the killing of Michael Brown, 18, on Saturday by a Ferguson police officer. Brown's parents called for an end to the violence while strongly disputing the police version of their son's death. More than 1,000 people observed a moment of silence at a meeting called by the NAACP.
Throughout the day, protesters continued to face off with police, and as the sun set, lines of police in riot gear fired tear gas to disperse protesters, telling them it was time to go home. By midnight, the situation was quiet.
St. Louis County Police and the FBI promised thorough investigations into the shooting of Brown outside an apartment complex in the 2900 block of Canfield Drive. The address is just east of a stretch of West Florissant Avenue, in the eastern corner of Ferguson, that was the focus of violence and looting Sunday night after a day of peaceful protest. 
Police fired the tear gas into an increasingly unruly crowd that had reformed near the QuikTrip at 9240 West Florissant Avenue, looted and torched Sunday. The gutted store was ground zero for protests all day Monday.
Police, backed by a SWAT armored car, blocked both West Florissant and the entry to Canfield Drive, scene of the killing on Saturday afternoon that touched off the protests and violence. All but a few protesters had retreated from the scene by 9 p.m., and police held their positions in the streets.
Two miles to the south, an overflow crowd observed a moment of silence at Murchison Tabernacle CME Church, 7629 Natural Bridge Road in Normandy. Cornell Brooks, the new national president of the NAACP, pleaded for calm as the community responds to the "unfolding drama."
"Martin Luther King did not live and die so that we might steal in the name of justice in the middle of the night," said Brooks, who flew to St. Louis for the gathering, sponsored by the organization's St. Louis County branch. The shooting and rioting have drawn international attention.
Damage from Sunday night and early Monday was most extensive on West Florissant, but it also jumped two miles north to commercial areas near Interstate 270, where a Walmart was among retailers hit.
Seven miles south of the scene, several retailers in Brentwood closed their doors early Monday evening. "We didn't want to take any chances," said a security guard at the Brentwood Promenade. The Galleria mall also closed early after a few girls got into a fight. Authorities said the fight was not related to Ferguson.
Protests formed and reformed all day Monday outside the gutted QuikTrip. Marchers chanted and held up their hands in a mock sign of surrender as police hovered nearby. West Florissant was crowded with horn-honking gawkers in cars.
Earlier in the day, protesters gathered outside the Ferguson police station, 222 South Florissant Road, to the west of West Florissant. More than 150 people took part, also holding up their hands and shouting, "Hands up, don't shoot," and "No justice, no peace."
At the scene of the shooting, where a growing pile of teddy bears marked the spot, a man in a white T-shirt fired a handgun Monday afternoon. Police did not respond to the scene.
Brown's father, Michael Brown Sr., 36, was surveying the mound of bears when the shots were fired.
"I just need justice for my son, get this case solved. I need everybody to come together to get this done," he said.
At 5 p.m., honking and yelling continued outside the QuikTrip.
"It feels like I am at a historical moment," said Armaon Simmons, 17, of the Normandy area. "Black people are coming together. We aren't killing each other; we are working as one."
But Zackery Keys, an African-American and union carpenter from St. Louis County, saw it differently. "This is a disturbed group of young people," said Keys, 58, from a safe distance. "This is nothing to be proud of. Who wants to be part of chaos? ... Probably 95 percent of these people don't even vote."
Police said they made no more than 10 arrests Monday, mostly for peace disturbance. In contrast, there were 32 arrests Sunday, leading Monday to charges against 10 suspects. St. Louis County Prosecutor Robert P. McCulloch said the 10 were all "well-known" to investigators. Police officials and political leaders appealed for calm. St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley announced the FBI involvement during a news conference in Clayton. The St. Louis County NAACP branch and numerous elected officials had called for the FBI to step in.
Dooley promised the process would be open but not quick. "We're asking all the public to be calm, be patient," Dooley said.
St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar said the FBI "will take a lot of the information we have developed already through our investigation. They will take that investigation, and they may do their own interviews and take a look at the evidence themselves."
"We will share our information with Prosecutor McCulloch's office and at the same time with the FBI," Belmar said.
Belmar said Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson contacted him Saturday even before he got to the scene of the shooting. "This is a complex investigation, as it should be," Belmar added. "We need to make sure everything's done right."
He said investigators still need to talk to scores of people at the apartment complex.
"I understand the public has a right to be skeptical," Belmar said. "But I would also ask the public to be reasonable."
Police did not release the name or race of the police officer, who was put on leave. Belmar said Sunday the officer had an encounter with two people and that Brown pushed the officer inside his police vehicle. Belmar said one shot was fired in the car. He said the officer fired multiple shots at Brown, who was away from the car, killing him.
Family members and some witnesses disputed the police account. They say Brown had his hands up in surrender when he was shot.
In Washington, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division will take part in what he called a "concurrent federal inquiry."
"The federal investigation will supplement, rather than supplant, the inquiry by local authorities," Holder said. "At every step, we will work with the local investigators, who should be prepared to complete a thorough, fair investigation in their own right."
The county NAACP and the African-American Mound City Bar Association released a joint statement urging witnesses to come forward. The statement said it was "clear that there were many witnesses who had not yet been interviewed by police investigators."
They promised to provide free legal counsel to witnesses who come forward.
A spokesman for the Rev. Al Sharpton, of the National Action Network, said he would visit Ferguson today to meet with the victim's family and community leaders, and hold a news conference. At 7 p.m. today, the Rev. Traci D. Blackmon will host a forum at Christ the King United Church of Christ, 11370 Old Halls Ferry Road, where Ferguson Mayor James Knowles III and Police Chief Jackson were expected to be on hand to answer questions.
On West Florissant Monday, shopkeepers and employees swept debris and boarded up windows, raising sheets of plywood from trucks parked throughout the area. Not all the windows had been smashed - businesses were guarding against another round of violence.
A spokesperson for QuikTrip said employees of the burned store were transferred to other locations, and that the company hadn't decided whether to rebuild. A Walmart spokesman said it would keep its Ferguson store closed for now.
The Ferguson-Florissant School District canceled meetings scheduled for Monday evening at eight elementary schools that would have allowed parents and students to meet teachers and visit classrooms. School is to begin Thursday.
"We are heartbroken by the tragic events of recent days in and around the City of Ferguson," administrators wrote on the district website. "We are planning to receive and support our students when school begins this Thursday, and we look forward to working closely with our community to heal and rebuild."
The Jennings School District, just east of the apartments on Canfield, canceled the first day of school Monday. "Safety is our uppermost concern," according to a district news release. "At this time we do not feel it's safe for our students to walk to school." Classes were scheduled to begin today, according to the district website.
At the QuikTrip, one man who claimed to have taken part late Sunday sought to justify the violence. But other citizens dropped by to decry the mayhem and to urge businesses to continue serving the area.
Leonette Hilliard, a middle school English teacher, wrote a note to the store and taped it onto the side wall saying, "Corporate neighbor: I am sorry this act of robbery and violence has happened. Please return soon."
She taped it across graffiti saying "187 county police," the 187 being a slang reference to murder. Hilliard said she comes to the store to two or three times a week and has been doing so for about 15 years.
"This just doesn't represent who we are as a community and I wanted just to say something to do something that was productive," she said.
Belmar said Monday that officers originally were deployed the night before so protesters had an "opportunity to vent, but at some point we could no longer sustain that attitude." He said they moved to police cars to become more mobile as departments received numerous calls for shots fired, vandalism, burglary and assault.
"It was a miracle, however, that nobody actually got shot (Sunday) night," Belmar said. "I was expecting the worst. You can never tell, when you're in an environment like this."
---
Tim Barker, Kim Bell, Jesse Bogan, Jessica Bock, Tim Bryant, Nancy Cambria, Stephen Deere, Lilly Fowler, Steve Giegerich, Valerie Schremp Hahn, Paul Hampel, Jeremy Kohler, Tim O'Neil and Nicholas Pistor, all of the Post-Dispatch, contributed to this report.
