There was an eerie flashback to 1965 in parts of the St. Louis region Sunday. Riot gear. Tear gas. Looting. Stores on fire. Dozens arrested.
It was the violent aftermath of a violent encounter the day before between a police officer and teenager Michael Brown, who was killed. The turmoil came a day short of the anniversary of the Watts riots in Los Angeles.
It's hard to explain race relations within the St. Louis area to those who have never lived here. It's even harder to make sense of it for children being reared in a more diverse and multiracial America than ever before. It's important to consider our recent past. 
St. Louis, recently ranked as the sixth-most racially segregated city in the country, has entrenched polarized attitudes about race and law enforcement.
Ferguson, a community of about 21,000, is an inner-ring suburb, a place where it's easy for the economic recovery to bypass the poor. It's a city of 6 square miles, about 10 miles north of downtown. About two-thirds of the residents are African-American. The median income in 2012 was $44,000, roughly $15,000 less than the state average.
It's a part of the county where whites left en masse beginning a few decades ago. In the 1950s, they began rapidly leaving north St. Louis, creating one of the most extreme cases of "white flight" in the country. But many who remained in power are white, including much of law enforcement.
The images from the day before were tinder for this fire: A young black man with his hands in the air. The graphic photo, widely circulated, of Brown slain, lying on the street. His stepfather holding a sign saying the police executed his son. Social media ablaze with photos, videos and outrage.
Brown's family members have said the destruction in their hometown is salt in their wounds. When peaceful protests turn to a city's self-immolation, there is no justice for anyone. What's left is a community used to being unheard, roiling in the wake of a deadly police shooting. A powder keg of unemployment and poverty, of neglect and frustration, and those willing to exploit a tragedy for personal gain.
When an unarmed black teenager is fatally shot, there are questions any mother, any citizen will have:
o Why did Brown's uncovered, slain body lie on the ground for four hours?
o Why did an officer, as yet unidentified, repeatedly fire shots when Brown didn't have a gun and had run away?
o What happened in that police car?
These answers will take time to uncover. The explanation offered from police officials thus far, that Brown struggled for the officer's gun, seems so at odds with the descriptions of a gentle kid, who was relieved to graduate high school and wanted to start a better life.
The interaction, the exchange between a young black man and police officer in that neighborhood, will be understood completely differently, given the individual's personal life experience.
For those who have been on the receiving end of disrespect, mistrust, suspicion or brutality, the impulse is to believe Brown was brutally gunned down.
For those who are fearful any time they cross into the city limits, most likely only for a sporting event, the young man must have done something wrong. These perspectives largely fall along racial lines.
It's a false dichotomy, a lazy narrative, to see this region as divided among racist whites and angry blacks. That's not reality in many neighborhoods and families here. But it's the loudest, most visible part of the discourse. Like much of America, St. Louis has an undeniable problem talking about or dealing with issues involving race.
Until we can tell our children - and ourselves - a more honest story about race in this region, we will be left with far worse tragedies to explain.
