PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti
Hundreds of inmates escape after prison attack
The attack on a Haitian prison on the capital's outskirts to free the son of a prominent businessman being held on kidnapping charges led to the escape of 329 inmates, officials said Monday. Police were searching nationwide for the escaped prisoners and have also asked for help from Interpol as well as authorities in the neighbouring Dominican Republic and nearby Jamaica because some men may have fled abroad, National Police Chief Godson Orleus said at a news conference in Port-au-Prince. So far, authorities have only managed to capture 10 of the prisoners who escaped Sunday when armed gunman attacked the prison in Croix-des-Bouquets to free Clifford Brandt, a member of a wealthy family, who has been held since 2012 for allegedly running a kidnapping ring in the capital. 
STOCKHOLM
Swedish politician claims Mitterrand was his father
A Swedish politician surrounded by rumours of being the secret son of Francois Mitterrand has said in an interview that the late French president was his father. Hravn Forsne, a 25-year-old running for Parliament, made the claim in an interview with a local newspaper in his electoral district. If the claim is correct he would be Mitterrand's second child with a mistress.
MIAMI
Miami police on the hunt for rabbi's killer
Miami-Dade police on Monday said they are committed to finding the people responsible for shooting and killing a rabbi walking to temple in Northeast Miami-Dade over the weekend. Rabbi Joseph Raksin, who was visiting his family from Brooklyn, was on is way to Bais Menachem Chabad at about 9 a.m. Saturday when he was gunned down.
FERGUSON, Mo.
FBI investigating police shooting of unarmed teen
The FBI is investigating possible civil rights violations after a suburban St. Louis police officer fatally shot an unarmed teenager. Cheryl Mimura, a spokesperson for the FBI's St. Louis field office, says the agency opened an investigation Monday into possible civil rights violations arising from the death of Michael Brown, 18. Police say Brown was shot multiple times Saturday in a scuffle with an officer in Ferguson. A candlelight vigil for Brown was held Sunday, and tensions erupted later that night. Nearly three dozen people were arrested after a crowd looted and burned stores, vandalized vehicles and taunted officers.
HELSINKI
Russian power plays leave little changed in chess
Former world champion Garry Kasparov failed in his bid to oust the eccentric longtime head of the World Chess Federation on Monday in a bitter contest steeped in Russian power plays. Kasparov, a critic of Vladimir Putin, was the sole challenger against Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, a wealthy businessman known to be supported by the Russian president. The vote was held at an international tournament in Norway. Ilyumzhinov has headed the body for 19 years.
