Authorities on Tuesday delayed revealing the identity of the police officer who fatally shot an unarmed teen and set off a wave of community outrage, citing threats against the officer on social media. 
"If we come out and say, 'It was this officer,' then he immediately becomes a target," Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson said. "We're taking the threats seriously."
Jackson, who had said he would reveal the name Tuesday, said there is no timetable.
The Associated Press reported that witnesses said Michael Brown, 18,  raised his hands to surrender before the shots were fired. Police have not confirmed that. The shooting set off two nights of violent protests.
Protesters promising a peaceful rally gathered across the street from the St. Louis County Police Department's Clayton headquarters. Also in attendance: about 50 police officers from 10 area departments.
Jackson said that protesters Monday night threw rocks at police and that gunfire came from the crowd, so officers used tear gas and shot "beanbag rounds" meant to stun them. There were 15 arrests but no reports of the looting that rocked the suburban St. Louis city Sunday night, KSDK-TV reported.
"This is a lot of young people reacting to getting shot at with tear gas," said protester Shawn Jordan.
At a community forum Monday, national NAACP President Cornell William Brooks demanded justice while condemning the violence and looting.
In a statement Tuesday, President Obama called Brown's death "heartbreaking," and he sent "deepest condolences" to his family and the community.
"As Attorney General Holder has indicated, the Department of Justice is investigating the situation, along with local officials," Obama added. "I know the events of the past few days have prompted strong passions, but as details unfold, I urge everyone in Ferguson, Missouri, and across the country to remember this young man through reflection and understanding.
"We should comfort each other and talk with one another in a way that heals, not in a way that wounds. Along with our prayers, that's what Michael and his family, and our broader American community, deserve."
The FBI opened an investigation Monday into Brown's death, who police said was shot multiple times.
Piper reports for KSDK-TV in St. Louis. Contributing: AP 
