In the aftermath of the fatal shooting of Michael Brown, St. Louis faith leaders are hoping to lead the charge in de-escalating racial tension and rebuilding trust in Ferguson.
One step toward that goal will take place tonight, when the Rev. Traci D. Blackmon will host a forum at 7 p.m. at Christ the King United Church of Christ. Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson and Mayor James Knowles III are expected to be on hand to answer questions.
Blackmon, pastor at Christ the King in Florissant, is organizing the forum after submitting a petition with about 480 signatures to the Ferguson Police Department that called on officers to immediately engage with the community. 
"I think what is at the core of this is fear," said Blackmon, adding that she was not ready to vilify the Ferguson Police Department. "What an African-American male represents is fear, and our fear causes us to react irrationally.
"Sometimes there's justified fear on both sides, but how do we stop it?"
Blackmon said she had been in contact with Michael Brown's family, praying twice with Michael's mother, Lesley McSpadden.
Blackmon hopes that, in addition to civic and faith leaders, those who feel most disenfranchised in Ferguson will attend the forum.
"I hear people saying, 'See me, hear me, I'm not invisible,'" Blackmon said.
"There's a small group of individuals that tend to take advantage of the situation and make it worse," Blackmon said, referring to Sunday's night looting in Ferguson. "We want to go in a positive direction."
Rodney Francis, senior pastor at Washington Tabernacle Missionary Baptist Church, said the "main concern is how we can prevent interactions with unarmed citizens from ending with a homicide."
"We want to know what kind of training officers are being given to de-escalate," a situation, Francis said. Police need to "respect that everyone in the community is not a criminal."
A range of church leaders are expected to attend Tuesday's forum, including representatives from the St. Louis Metropolitan Clergy Coalition, the United Church of Christ, Central Reform Congregation and the Rev. Michael Kinman of Christ Church Cathedral, an Episcopal church in St. Louis.
In a sermon on Sunday, Kinman spoke about the death of Brown, noting that although some of the facts of the case were unknown, the community realizes there are "too many guns on our streets... that there are deep divides of race and class... that these divides continue to bring us nothing but misery."
"Show us that this storm, of whom Michael Brown is only the latest victim, is not more powerful than God and God's people.
"We were born to walk on water. We can do impossible things," Kinman said to his congregation, referring to Jesus walking on water.
By today, the Rev. Al Sharpton, a New York-based civil rights leader, is also expected to arrive in St. Louis.
Sharpton said, at the request of the Brown family, he was flying to St. Louis to "work with groups in the area as we pursue justice in the tradition of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr."
Joseph Anderson, president of 100 Black Men of Metropolitan St. Louis, a nonprofit group that aims to educate and empower young African-Americans, said church leaders have always played an important role in leading a community out of civil unrest.
"History tells us the church has been at the forefront of moving social issues forward," Anderson said. "We do believe prayer is a piece of change."
Anderson said the forum would attempt to sort out the frustration in the African-American community that has been building for years but over the weekend was released "like a bottle cork that just busted."
