FERGUSON, Mo. - President Barack Obama called the police shooting death of an unarmed black teenager a tragedy and called Tuesday for thoughtful response after two nights of violent protests, looting, arrests and tear gas in a St. Louis suburb. 
He promised a full U.S. Department of Justice investigation into the case, which has provoked outrage in the largely African-American town of Ferguson, where police have not released the shooter's name, citing security concerns and death threats.
"I know the events of the past few days have prompted strong passions, but ... I urge everyone in Ferguson, Missouri, and across the country, to remember this young man through reflection and understanding," Mr. Obama said in a statement.
Friends and family of 18-year-old Michael Brown planned a peaceful church vigil for Tuesday night, and his father pleaded for an end to the violence that has followed the incident, while activists demanded that authorities release the name of the officer involved. Standing with supporters, including the Rev. Al Sharpton, Michael Brown Sr. said he wanted justice for his son but wanted it "the right way."
"I need all of us to come together and do this right, the right way," said Mr. Brown, who wore a T-shirt showing his son's baby picture. "No violence."
Activists speaking to reporters in downtown St. Louis also called for federal authorities to take over the investigation after two nights of demonstrations and unrest.
Police in Ferguson had initially said they would release the officer's name Tuesday, but changed the plan, citing fears of retaliation, according to media reports.
Mr. Sharpton, a New York-based civil rights leader, also called for peaceful protest in the wake of looting and more than 50 arrests since the shooting. Mr. Sharpton's National Action Network will pay for Mr. Brown's funeral. "To become violent in Michael Brown's name is to betray the gentle giant that he was," Mr. Sharpton said of the 6-foot-4 Mr. Brown, who had planned to start college this week.
A demonstration was planned at a Ferguson-area church Tuesday evening.
Mr. Brown was shot to death in the back of a police car Saturday, police said. The race of the officer, a six-year veteran who is now on administrative leave, has not been revealed. The FBI has opened a civil rights investigation into the racially charged case, and St. Louis County also is investigating.
Police said Mr. Brown was shot in a struggle with a gun in the police car but have not said why Mr. Brown was in the car. At least one shot was fired during the struggle, and then the officer fired more shots before leaving the car, police said.
But a witness to the shooting interviewed on local media has said Mr. Brown had been putting his hands up to surrender when he was killed.
