ALBANY, N.Y.
Tiger selfies now illegal
in New York under new law
Some of New York's internet Romeos will have to find new ways to attract mates now that it's illegal to pose for photos with a tiger, lion or other big cat - a practice popular on online dating sites but denounced by wildlife advocates as potentially dangerous to both man and beast. A law signed this week prohibits direct contact between members of the public and big cats at travelling animal shows and fairs. Animal exhibitors would face fines for each violation. So-called "tiger selfies" have emerged as popular profile photos on online dating sites, with users looking to stand out by posting a photo of themselves with the dangerous predators. 
TORONTO
Cleric defends campaign to topple Pakistani government
A Pakistani-Canadian cleric who is leading the campaign to topple the government in his native country says he will continue his fight, despite a murder investigation launched against him by Pakistani police. Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri, who left Canada in June to return to Pakistan, is calling on thousands of his supporters to march on the capital Islamabad on Thursday in a bid to oust the government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. Qadri and another anti-government leader - former cricket legend Imran Khan - allege that the nationwide election last year was widely rigged.
FERGUSON, Mo.
Police won't name officer
who fatally shot black teen
The police chief in a St. Louis suburb where a police officer fatally shot an unarmed black teenager said he's holding off on publicly identifying the officer because of death threats. Ferguson Police Chief Tom Jackson said he planned to release the officer's name on Tuesday, but changed course after threats were called into the police department and city hall, and posted on social media. The officer was placed on administrative leave Saturday after fatally shooting 18-year-old Michael Brown.
CINCINNATI
Wife of U.S. man detained in North Korea asks for mercy
The wife and three children of an American man charged with "anti-state" crimes in North Korea apologized Tuesday to the communist country and pleaded for its government to show him mercy. The family of Jeffrey Edward Fowle, 56, appeared at a news conference with an attorney and family friend acting as their spokesperson. Fowle is suspected of leaving a Bible in a nightclub in the northern port city of Chongjin.
TORONTO
Canada donating experimental vaccine for outbreak response
A made-in-Canada experimental Ebola vaccine will be offered for use in the West African outbreak response, the Public Health Agency of Canada revealed Tuesday. The news comes hours after the World Health Organization said a panel of experts advised that it would be ethical to use untested drugs and vaccine in this raging epidemic.
