WHAT IF no one videotaped the police shooting of 
 III?
What if there had been no video that captured a BART police officer shooting the Hayward man in the back while he lay prone on the platform at the Fruitvale station in Oakland? No compelling images downloaded hundreds of thousands of times from Oakland to New Delhi?
Would Johannes Mehserle, the former BART officer accused of killing Grant, have still been charged with murder? 
What we know is the videos have played a major role toward how the Grant case has unfolded   both in terms of public pressure and the response by the Alameda County district attorney. Former Alameda County District Attorney Tom Orloff said cell phone videos were a key factor in his decision to charge Mehserle with murder, rather than a lesser charge.
Videos will be crucial pieces of evidence as the Mehserle trial gets under way in Los Angeles.
Mehserle's attorney, Michael Rains, had filed a motion to prevent the videos from being shown to the jury. On Wednesday, Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Robert Perry dismissed it. Jurors will see what countless others have seen on the Internet.
There are videos on YouTube and Facebook that show police officers behaving badly. One popular download depicted a nut case in a Washington, D.C., brandishing a gun to break up a snowball fight.
People have increasingly been turning to their cell phones to document what they believe are instances of police abuse and misconduct.
A New York City police officer was convicted of perjury based in large part on a cell phone video taken by a tourist that showed the officer knocking a cyclist off his bicycle during a demonstration in 2008. The officer claimed the cyclist had attacked him first and charged the man with resisting arrest.
Videos by Joe Citizen, uploaded to Facebook and YouTube, have increasingly caught rogue officers red-handed. That should be considered a good thing. It doesn't serve any of our interests to have abusive lawbreaking cops on the loose.
So why in the world would states such as Massachusetts, Maryland and Illinois make it illegal to videotape on-duty police officers?
The legal justification stretches current wiretapping and surveillance laws to the point of ludicrousness. These three states are among 12 that have laws stating that all parties must consent to a recording for it to be legal.
The idea is to prevent a reporter, say, from secretly taping someone without their knowledge during a telephone conversation.
The law was never intended to apply to public places where no one has a reasonable expectation of privacy.
The police are public employees.
Why shouldn't the citizens who pay their salaries be allowed to photograph them, as long as the shooters aren't interfering with an arrest? Or, in certain rare exceptions, if the officer is undercover and exposing his identity would place him in peril?
Why shouldn't officers expect to be accountable to the public?
The police officers who are doing their jobs with integrity and respect for the law   which many are   have nothing to worry about.
It's outrageous that police have arrested people merely for videotaping officer's activities on public streets in Boston, Philadelphia, Miami and Chicago.
Christopher Drew was charged with violating Illinois' eavesdropping statute for recording his encounter with police while he was selling T-shirts on the street. A Cook County judge threw out Drew's request to have the case dismissed.
He faces a felony   the same class of crime as a sexual assault   for illegally taping his own arrest.
Audio and videotape have played a vital role in helping expose police abuses.
Rodney King, anyone?
As long as members of the public aren't obstructing or otherwise interfering with police officers, they should be well within their rights to videotape them.
What if it were illegal to videotape police in California?
Would those who recorded the Grant shooting have been arrested and thrown in jail?
Would their then-illegally obtained videos be inadmissible in court?
How would that scenario have served the best interest of justice?
Tammerlin Drummond is a columnist for Bay Area News Group. Contact her at tdrummond@bayareanewsgroup.com or at Twitter/tammerlin
