LOS ANGELES   The first full day of testimony in the murder case against former BART police Officer Johannes Mehserle provided the courtroom Friday with the trial's first emotional outburst from the witness stand. A 17-year-old friend of 
 III broke down in tears as he watched a video he recorded capturing the sound of Mehserle's gun firing.
The uncontrollable sobs of Jamil Dewar, which came minutes before an afternoon lunch break at the Clara Shortridge Foltz Criminal Justice Center,  were just a quick moment in a day that also revealed how Mehserle's defense attorney intends to bring into question Grant's behavior in the minutes before he was killed by Mehserle as he lay face down on the Fruitvale BART station platform in Oakland early Jan. 1, 2009. 
The day's testimony from five witnesses also revealed how deputy district attorney David Stein will attempt to use observations from witnesses of the killing to rebut an anticipated defense video analysis that the defense contends proves that Grant, a 22-year-old Hayward man, and his friends resisted arrest and acted violently toward BART police officers.
Dewar's tears, which forced an early lunch break, came after the jury had heard from three other BART passengers who captured videos of the shooting and the events that led up to it on their digital cameras.
Dewar was calm and composed as he began his testimony, describing to Stein how there was a "tussle" on the train between Grant and another man known to Grant and his friends as the Dublin-Pleasanton-bound train pulled into the Fruitvale station.
After about 10 minutes of questioning, Stein played the video Dewar recorded of the events leading to Grant's killing. As the sound of Mehserle's gun firing was heard through the speakers of two flat-screen televisions, Dewar burst into uncontrollable sobs and put his head down between his hands.
Stein asked for an immediate break as Dewar's mother, also crying, rushed to the witness stand to comfort her son.
Dewar's sobs turned into visible disgust after lunch when Mehserle's defense attorney, Michael Rains, sought details from the teen about the fight Grant was involved in on the train and suggested the emotional outburst was just a stunt to influence the jury.
Rains pointed out that Dewar had not reacted the same way last year during a preliminary hearing in the case when the video was shown in a larger Alameda County courtroom.
"It was more fresh in my mind then," Dewar said. "I haven't watched that same video since then."
"Oh, so when it was fresh in your mind, you didn't feel the same emotional response you did today?" Rains asked.
"No," Dewar responded.
"Oh, OK," Rains said, sarcastically.
Rains used his questioning of Dewar to point out that Grant was involved in a fight on the BART train and to show that Dewar gave more details of that confrontation to a private investigator working for Oakland attorney John Burris, who represents Grant's family in a multimillion-dollar wrongful death lawsuit against BART.
The style of questioning was much more confrontational compared with how Rains questioned other witnesses who also captured the events that led to Grant's death on their digital cameras.
Testimony from those other witnesses appeared to give Stein and Rains information to bolster the arguments that they said, during opening statements, they will make throughout the trial.
For Stein, the witnesses provided contradictions to the defense argument that Grant and his friends were acting aggressively toward BART police and at times attempted to strike the officers with their fists. All but one witness called Friday said they did not see Grant and his friends resist arrest or try to strike the officers as the group was told to stand along a wall at the station.
The one witness who said it appeared Grant and his friends were not being completely cooperative said only that the group refused to sit down when told to do so.
The witnesses said they began to record the events on video because they thought BART police,   and in particular former Officer Anthony Pirone   were abusing their power. The abuse began, they said, as soon as Pirone arrived at the station and began cursing at Grant and his friends.
Once the group was forced, by Pirone, against a wall at the station, at least two witnesses said it appeared to them that Grant was the person trying to calm the situation.
At one point, two witnesses said, Grant placed his arm against his friend as the friend was yelling at a female officer in front of him. A second later, Pirone ran up and, it appears in the video, hits Grant in the head and forces him to the ground.
Rains contends that Grant was trying to punch the officer, but the witnesses viewed the event differently.
"What it looked like to me is that his friend had gotten smart with the female officer, and (Grant) was saying, 'Calm down, don't get smart,' " said Karina Vargas, whose video of the event has been featured prominently in the case. "They looked like they were doing everything the officers wanted them to do."
Tommy Cross, who also captured the shooting with a video recorded from his digital camera, remembered it the same way.
"It didn't look to me like he reached for her; it looked like he was reaching to his friend," Cross said.
At the same time, however, the witnesses described Mehserle as being "shocked," "dumbfounded" and "surprised" after he pulled the trigger on his gun.
Yet Cross said he remembered, at it is shown in the video he recorded, that after the shooting, Mehserle knelt down and handcuffed Grant as he lay dying on the station platform.
Asked how the police responded after the shooting, Cross said, "Not the way they should have.
"They began to restrain him," Cross continued as he described being in shock over what he had just seen. "I just witnessed an individual being shot by someone who is supposed to calm things down."
