LOS ANGELES   Police officer training was the focal point Tuesday in the murder trial against former BART police Officer Johannes Mehserle as a handful of BART and independent experts testified about how police officers are supposed to conduct themselves in various situations.
Though the testimony was void of any emotion, it was filled with poignant facts that the prosecution and defense attempted to use to prove that Mehserle either intentionally pulled out his gun and fatally shot 
 III in the back or tragically mistook his gun for his Taser early Jan. 1, 2009. 
Defense attorney Michael Rains focused on testimony from two firearms trainers   one from BART and the other from Napa Valley College   to show that Mehserle's actions in the seconds it took him to draw and shoot his gun were not consistent with the actions a well-trained officer would follow if that officer intended to use his firearm.
Meanwhile, deputy district attorney David Stein used the two firearms experts and a BART police use-of-force trainer to show that none of the BART officers responding to the Fruitvale station in Oakland the morning Grant was killed followed the training they were given by the BART Police Department.
Stein focused on the gun Mehserle used in the killing and the holster he used to carry it to show that an officer must follow a unique set of steps in order to pull the gun from a holster and then fire it.
Throughout his questioning of the experts, Stein had each repeat a cardinal rule given to all police officers: "Do not point a firearm at anything you don't want to destroy."
Both firearms training experts   David Clark, an instructor at Napa Valley College where Mehserle was a police cadet, and Sgt. Paul Garcia, a trainer at BART who gave Mehserle lessons   said learning to pull a gun from a holster and preparing to fire was the most important aspect of a police officer's training.
Both said they continually preach practice to future and current officers and hope that once an officer makes a decision to use lethal force, the act of pulling a gun becomes second-nature.
"They have to be practiced over and over and over again," Clark said of the motions used to unholster a gun and fire it. "It takes a long time to build up muscle memory, to be able to draw a weapon smoothly."
Mehserle had been a police officer for less than two years when he killed Grant, a 22-year-old Hayward resident.
Stein also focused on the use-of-force training to highlight the proper techniques   dubbed the Koga techniques   that are supposed to be used to search and arrest a suspect. Videos recorded of the BART police officers' actions the morning Grant was killed show that most officers on the platform did not follow those rules.
Rains used the experts to highlight the lack of training BART officers had in using Tasers and to point out that videos of the shooting show that Mehserle was not following the techniques an officer is trained to follow once he decides to use lethal force.
Rains had Clark view a video of the shooting and comment on the technique Mehserle used before killing Grant. The video shows that Mehserle stood up, fumbled with his holster and then fired a shot at Grant, who was lying on a concrete station platform.
"There are things that are not consistent (with what a properly trained officer would do)," Clark said as he observed Mehserle pulling out his gun and firing it.
In addition to Mehserle's actions of standing up before shooting, struggling with his holster and then immediately putting his gun back into his holster after the shot, Clark and Garcia said Mehserle's actions defied another cardinal rule taught to police officers: Do not use lethal force, even if deemed necessary, if the firing of a gun could result in others' being injured.
Firing a bullet into a suspect's back while that suspect lies on concrete with other officers and suspects nearby would be an example of when not to use lethal force, both experts agreed.
"That's the exact example I often use," Garcia said as he described how he trains BART officers to be cautious of using their guns on crowded station platforms.
Rains also used the experts to point out that BART failed to properly train its officers on the use of Tasers and showed that the officers, including Mehserle, were supplied Tasers less than a month before Grant was killed.
Garcia said he asked BART police officials, including retired Chief Gary Gee, to conduct training for officers in the use of Tasers under stressful conditions, but that training was denied for what appeared to be monetary reasons. Therefore, Garcia said, BART officers were never trained how to use Tasers in stressful situations or react to situations in which an officer would have to make a decision whether to use a Taser or a gun on a suspect.
Stein, however, asked if it is possible that an officer's emotions could take over and result in an officer neglecting his training.
"Absolutely," Clark said.
"A lack of control (could result). They are not used to dealing with it," Clark said of stressful situations. "If an officer is not used to handling the situation, it could affect them."
Following up on Rains' questions about whether Mehserle's actions in drawing his gun were inconsistent with training, Stein asked Garcia if it was inconsistent with training for an officer to fire a fatal bullet into the back of an unarmed man.
"That would be inconsistent with our training," Garcia said.
