IN AN article in this newspaper about the Johannes Mehserle trial jury selection, Laurie Levenson, a professor of law at Loyola, is quoted as having said that "in this day and age ... it is a little bit racist, to say you have to be black to have empathy for blacks." Tammerlin Drummond essentially repeated this charge of racism in her column on the subject: "it's naive, and frankly racist." 
I cry out loud: No, no, you don't get it!?
Malcolm X discovered what Professor Levenson and columnist Drummond miss when he was directed in prison to look up the meaning of the word "white" and the word "black" in the English dictionary. Malcolm found that the meaning for "white" leans toward goodness and innocence, while the meaning of "black" leans toward evil.
This linguistics color-bias is replicated on many cultural and socio-psychological levels here in the U.S.
Those who consciously or unconsciously claim white privilege rarely are able to overcome these cultural tides of negativity to fairly judge the life-worth of an 
Make no mistake, Michael Rains, Mehserle's attorney, will be sailing with the tide when he denigrates Grant's character. Caucasians who are blind to their privilege and those who seek to go along and not cause any problems will be carried consciously and unconsciously toward biased decisions. This is the reality of racism today.
We know that blacks suffer from the negative social-psychological pressure of a deep-seeded prejudice that has shaped almost every aspect of U.S. society, especially the criminal justice system. We know this constant pressure causes blacks to suffer from internalized racism, low self-esteem, poor health and much relational dysfunction.
Let's be real; it also skews the feelings and perceptions of whites. I suggest that Levenson and Drummond   and any who agree with them   read two very recent exposures of this phenomenon: "The History of White People" by Nell Irvin Painter and "The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in an Era of Colorblindness" by Michelle Alexander.
Let's not fool ourselves. President Barack Obama's election contributes only an incremental metric to this country's struggle with racism. Did Lionel Wilson's election as mayor make much impact on institutional and cultural racism in Oakland? No!
In general, the best that targets of racism can hope for is sympathy, not empathy. The founder of analytical psychology, C.G. Jung, described the use and the power of the "shadow side." Do we really   in this day and age   need an explanation about how European-Western-Anglo Saxon culture demonizes and denigrates people of color?
The "shadow side" is deeply buried in hearts and minds, language, institutions and judgments despite feelings of sympathy.
According to Jung, the shadow overwhelms a person's actions; for example, when the conscious mind is shocked, confused or paralyzed by indecision. The Mehserle trial has historical implications because a police officer has never been charged with murder for actions taken on-duty. Rains is very skilled at shocking, confusing and paralyzing jurors' minds. We will not get to justice by papering over or denying reality.
Wilson Riles is a member of Oakland Community Action Network.
