Honor 
 memory in a positive way
The tragic death of a young man, who was eager to continue his education and make a better life for himself, should not be tarnished by a small number of hooligans who take out their frustrations by looting, burning and rioting. Those actions only serve to compound the grief felt by the members of 
 family. For those who wish to honor Michael's memory in a positive way, I suggest these alternatives:
o Collect donations at intersections in your community to help the family pay for funeral expenses.
o Go to a local bank and establish a scholarship fund that will allow other high school graduates in the community to continue their education at colleges and technical schools. 
o Line the streets to ensure children's safety as they walk to and from school this week. Jennings School District felt it necessary to cancel school Monday in the aftermath of Sunday night's violence.
Once the investigation into this shooting has been completed, the citizens of Ferguson can decide what is needed to resolve the problems confronting their community.
Barbara Blacksher o Florissant
Looting, burning do nothing to settle differences
Someone once wrote: "Violence is the last refuge of the incompetent." Violence certainly does nothing to settle differences or resolve issues. The actions of the crowd in the wake of the tragic death of the young man in Ferguson will, if anything, have effects opposite of what is desired. They certainly will not bring back the young man.
The business that was looted and burned did not cause the death. What is accomplished by this burning and looting? It certainly does not give incentive for this business to rebuild, or for other businesses to come into this neighborhood. The people who worked there did not cause the young man's death, but they are certainly out of a job as a result.
What has been gained by this activity? Not much. It does nothing to bring much needed improvement in relations between people.
Jon Marx o Oakville
Ferguson residents don't want to realize they have a race problem
My city of Ferguson is in denial. We don't want to realize that we have a race problem. No, not a huge one, but one that festers and gets worse and sicker as it is ignored by those who cling to what was before.
I first noticed it in a big way when my fellow Ferguson residents insisted that the Ferguson-Florissant School District go back to the drawing board when the board kept its promise to the city of Berkeley to keep the name Berkeley on the replacement high school. This was a little over 10 years ago.
Last year was another big moment, when the all-white school board tripped all over themselves to suspend and dismiss a well-qualified superintendent who was African-American, first saying there was no wrongdoing - just "philosophical difference." They were actually surprised to learn that African-Americans do pay attention to what decisions are made that may impact their child's education. What should have been outrage by the entire community was only experienced by many African-Americans, as most whites sat it out waiting for the board to reveal its "real" reason, as the board kept hiding behind "personnel confidentiality" struggling to find a legitimate reason. Meanwhile, many white voters elected two of the incumbents back to the board.
And now, our mayor says during Sunday and Monday interviews that our community is a "close-knit" one, and the looters are outsiders. Mr. Mayor, although you may consider the looters as outsiders, I assure you that some of them are Ferguson residents. I don't think they feel part of the "close-knit" community. In fact, I don't think that most of the African-Americans who attended the School Board meetings are feeling the love of a close-knit community either.
My fellow Ferguson residents, it's time. Let's talk about race.
Cassandra Butler o Ferguson
Media should think twice before further stoking the fires
Was it justified? That is the one question to be answered in the shooting death of 
. If the answer is no, the courts will deal with the crime. If the answer is yes, then the police officer goes back to work.
Yet, before the investigation is complete, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch editorial board has rendered its verdict on the editorial page (Aug. 11): "
 didn't get due process."
An important area of North County is in tatters, caused by rioters determined to take other people's stuff, and the Post-Dispatch decides this is the time to further stoke the fires.
Already there is talk on St. Louis media that while the rioting is not justified, it is understandable. Understandable? What has taking other people's stuff got to do with the death of an 18-year-old? What is it about social and economic conditions that can justify the looting and the burning a QuikTrip gas station?
The next morning after the QT was burned, some said the riots are symptoms of hopelessness brought on by a lack of economic opportunity. When adults show any acceptance of rioters, that acceptance becomes an invitation to the next round of rioting.
The St. Louis media, St. Louis commentators and politicians must think twice before talking once.
Lee A. Presser o Manchester
Argument that Brown was unarmed doesn't work
The argument that 
 was unarmed no longer works for me because of the rioting and looting, and how is that good for his case? I am a little older and will need hip surgery sometime soon, but I am confident that I could make an officer fear for his/her life. And if I am really determined, it would be within the officer's interests to shoot me while I am out of arm's reach. The rioting gave me a chance to think from a different perspective that I otherwise might not have.
I would like to see justice and mercy, but rioting and looting are neither. The target of the anger is not harmed, but some of your neighbors and friends and brothers and sisters are now jobless.
Dean Fry o St. Ann
Death of Brown gets more coverage than another
I am wondering why you have given such an inordinate amount of sympathy to the fracas surrounding the death of 
 and why, in comparison, you gave so little space to the equally senseless death of Megan Boken. Why was her life so much less important than his? She had gone to college (she was employed) and was here to benefit the school from which she graduated.
What, in his lifetime, had 
 done to capture your sympathy and your incredible unending belief that those in/of his surroundings are deserving of the life Ms. Boken was living because of a dedication to hard work and extra effort she made to secure that life. Can we assume that there is a phenomenal component of jealousy that made Ms. Boken, in your eyes and the actions of the protesters, a less important human being?
Ruth Karraker o St. Louis County
No need for police to carry deadly weapon on routine patrol
Why? In 2014 and the age of the Taser, why should any police officer on routine patrol need to carry a deadly weapon?
Anthony Wippold o Clayton
Little outrage over other senseless murders
My heart goes out to the family of the Ferguson teen who was shot down by a police officer, but I can't help thinking of the many other senseless murders of young men and children that occur every day. Unlike the tragic case of 
, these receive hardly any attention from media and organizations.
Consider, the same thing happens every night in Chicago, with multiple deaths at the hands of other black men; and then there's north St. Louis and St. Louis City. Where's the national spotlight then? Where is the NAACP then? Yes, outrage is pouring out onto the streets in Ferguson, but how often, when it's black on black crime, does the community refuse to snitch on the suspect or those involved?
And then there are the savage murders of Iraqi Christian children by the invading militant ISIS group that's currently in the news. People are rightly outraged, but the same grisly murders have been going on for over 40 years behind the purple doors of the abortion mill in Granite City. Where is the outrage for the slaughter of these innocents? And, sadly, of the multiplied thousands who have perished, over 70 percent are black children.
When it comes right down to it, it seems to me that some of these outraged people need to do some soul-searching before they beat their chests and point fingers. Different weapons; same results.
Angela Michael o Highland
NAACP makes inflammatory statement
I would like to call to task the NAACP for the irresponsible and inflammatory statement that they released after the shooting death of 
 by a Ferguson police officer.
To characterize that shooting as a "slaughter" without knowing all the facts of the case, besides being irresponsible, is harmful and inciteful. It helps nothing! Instead of calling for calm and order, it had the opposite effect. In the future, I would urge the NAACP to consider its words more carefully before issuing such acrimonious statements.
Steve Cummings o Maryville
(Facebook) James Birmingham wrote: "It just kills me how the new media turns this and spins it into a race issue. I don't see it as a race issue. I see it as a police officer and suspect issue. I hate how society jumps the gun and makes up their mind on an issue without the full facts in the case. Just as any witness you will not and cannot issue the whole picture."
(Twitter) Umar Lee (@ STLAbuBadu) said at 6:55 p.m. Aug. 10: "We all want a positive future. Not one where unarmed kids or police officers are killed."
(Twitter) Patricia Bynes (@Patricialicious) said at 9:56 p.m. Aug. 10: "Watching them break into these businesses is HEARTBREAKING. THIS IS NOT #MikeBrown."
(Facebook) Diane Horning wrote: "I'm not trying to start more controversy, but just as Mike Brown was not given a chance to be proven innocent of anything, neither has the police officer. Let's not judge either of them and leave judgment where it belongs - in the courts."
