Protests were met with tear gas Wednesday night hours after the city's police chief went before the public to urge calm, saying that healing racial discord here has become a "top priority."
Tensions have flared since a police officer, still unidentified, fatally shot 18-year-old 
 who was walking to his grandmother's home Saturday afternoon with a friend.
Wednesday brought a fourth night of violence, even after city officials issued a statement expressing sympathy for the Brown family and asking people to confine their demonstrations to daylight hours. 
Police used tear gas to try to disperse protesters after flaming projectiles were thrown from the crowd. Police also used smoke bombs after directing people to go home.
Earlier, Wesley Lowery of The Washington Post and Ryan Reilly of The Huffington Post said they were handcuffed and put into a police van after officers came in to quickly clear a fast-food restaurant where they were doing some work.
The Post reported that Lowery said that he was slammed against a soda machine and plastic cuffs were put on his wrists. The reporters were subsequently released without any charges.
Dozens of officers set up barricades throughout the city, blocking most main roads.
Police yelled "Hold the line" and "Stop your vehicle." As vehicles approached a QuickTrip store that burned Monday, officers in bullet-proof vests drew and pointed rifles at the cars.
"Race relations is a top priority right now," Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson said, adding that he welcomes outside help. "I've been trying to increase the diversity of the department since I got here."
African Americans are two-thirds of the population of this St. Louis suburb, but they account for nine out of 10 stops by police. The 53-member police force includes three African Americans.
In discussing the original incident, Jackson has said the officer was assaulted by Brown and that the officer was pushed into his squad car, where a scuffle over his gun resulted in a gunshot. They emerged from the car and the officer fired several shots. Brown lay dead.
His friend, Dorian Johnson, tells a sharply different story.
Johnson, 22, told KSDK-TV that a white officer shot Brown "like an animal" in the head and chest as the teen put his hands in the air. He said the incident started around 1:40 p.m. Saturday when the officer pulled up beside the pair as they were walking down the street.
"He didn't say freeze, halt or anything like we were committing a crime," Johnson told KSDK. "He said, 'Get the 'F' on the sidewalk.'"
The officer then shoved open the car door, grabbed Brown around the neck and was pulling him through the window, Johnson said.
"The second time he says, 'I'll shoot.' A second later, the gun went off, and he let go," Johnson said. "That's how we were able to run at the same time."
Johnson said he ducked behind a car as the officer continued shooting, hitting Brown.
"His (Brown's) hands immediately went into the air and he turned around to the officer,"  he recalled. "My friend started to tell the officer that he was unarmed and that he could stop shooting (him). Before he could get his second sentence out, the officer fired several more shots into his head and chest area."
Johnson added, "I definitely think (the officer) is guilty of murder."
Jackson said his department is working with the Justice Department's community relations experts to address the community's racial strife. He said he hoped to arrange a meeting with Brown's relatives as early as today.
Police refused again  Wednesday to identify the officer or his race, citing threats that have been made against the police force.
The National Bar Association, whose membership is predominantly African-American, filed a records request  demanding the name, gender, rank, race, age and seniority of the officer. The organization also asked for information about the past conduct of the officer and any information about his or her use or alleged use of force against any suspects while with the Ferguson Police Department.
"We believe for the sake of transparency and for the sake of bringing calmness to the community, it is imperative that they release the name," said the association's president, Pamela Meanes.
St. Louis city and county are among the most segregated areas in the country.
Priscilla Dowden-White, a history professor at the University of Missouri-St. Louis, said the anger, rioting and violence that have shaken Ferguson are a legacy of the region's racial segregation.
"This is rooted in how the St. Louis community developed racially," she said. "This was a situation that was bound to occur."
St. Louis was at the epicenter of the fight against housing discrimination against blacks. In 1916, the city passed an ordinance that prohibited blacks from buying homes in or moving to predominantly white communities. The law was struck down in 1917.
But racially restricted covenants, which prohibited homeowners from selling a house to blacks, remained in effect until 1948, when the U.S. Supreme Court struck  the legally binding agreements after hearing the case of a black St. Louis home buyer.
Dowden-White said  real estate agents still steered African Americans in certain directions. That segregation, along with high unemployment, no wealth, low homeownership and few quality schools, resulted in communities steeped in poverty, she said.
"What we are seeing is the impact of poverty," she said. "And the legacy of poverty breeds a volatile situation."
Keyla Brown, 20, lives in Canfield Green Apartments, where Brown was shot. She said police routinely drive into neighborhood parking lots and harass people. She and her boyfriend, John West, 20, said they were pulled over in Ferguson six months ago and treated like criminals.
"They asked us if we smoked marijuana and if we had a gun," Brown said. "I didn't think it was right."
Fazal reported from Ferguson, Mo. Contributing: Grant Bissell and Brandie Piper, KSDK-TV, St. Louis; and Paul Overberg in McLean, Va. 
