PORT Vale keeper Sam Johnson says he can't afford any slip ups after  he was picked ahead of Chris Neal for the 1-1 draw with Walsall. 
The 21-year-old Johnson and 28-year-old Neal had shared goalkeeping duties during pre-season, but the younger man discovered he had won the battle for the start of the campaign when manager Micky Adams read out Vale's team just after 1.30pm on Saturday.
And Johnson went on to have a solid game against Walsall, but says he has to keep improving to hold off the challenge of Neal, who  won the players' player award for last season before signing a new two-year contract in the summer.
Johnson said: "Chris is such a fantastic goalkeeper and I thought, with all his experience, that he was a shoo-in for the first game, but thankfully it was me.
"I know Chris is going to want the shirt back, so I have to keep pushing myself, and I am sure he will keep pushing me.
"We are good friends off the pitch, so he wished me good luck before the match and told me to keep doing what I have been doing." 
Johnson had little chance with Tom Bradshaw's 59th-minute equaliser for the Saddlers.
Adams picked Johnson because of his form in pre-season, but must now decide whether to stick with the May Bank goalkeeper for tomorrow night's Capital One game at home to Hartlepool, or use the tie to give Neal a run out.
The manager will also step up his search for a striker today after saying that is the one position where his squad is still short of numbers.
Johnson believes the squad have a good chance of building on last season's ninth-placed finish in League One, the club's highest finish in the Football League for a decade.
He explained: "We have experience all over the team. Even the likes of 
 have so much experience, but he just missed out in this game. 
"I think there is a belief in the side that we can do what we did last season and finish in the top half. 
"Some other teams have quite big budgets, but I think it is our self belief that is going to get us forward." 
