Police faced a wave of criticism yesterday after using smoke bombs and tear gas to subdue protesters during a fourth night of unrest in a St Louis suburb.
America awoke to images resembling a war zone on its streets as police officers in military-style uniforms clashed with demonstrators in Ferguson, where protests erupted after an unarmed black teenager was shot dead by a white policeman.
Since 
 was killed on Saturday, the mostly black Midwest suburb has endured one night of violent rioting and three successive nights where police have fired plastic bullets, tear gas and smoke bombs at crowds. 
Wednesday night's trouble started with an event in a local park intended to celebrate the life of the 18-year-old youth, who had just graduated from high school and had been due to start college this week.
But after dark, police in riot gear and backed by armoured trucks broke up demonstrations as rocks and petrol bombs were thrown at their lines.
Two journalists were handcuffed and arrested in a branch of McDonald's and, separately, a black St Louis councillor who has been praised for documenting the events of the week on social media, spent the night in jail.
Police ordered Alderman Antonio French out of his car and charged him with unlawful assembly. Speaking as he emerged from the police station yesterday, Mr French told the media: "Our civil rights don't expire at 9pm."
President Obama broke off from his holiday in Martha's Vineyard to urge "peace and calm on the streets of Ferguson". He said there was never an excuse for violence against police or for using events as a cover for looting, but made clear that officers had a duty to allow peaceful protest and not use excessive force. "We all need to hold ourselves to a higher standard here," he added.
Mr Obama has ordered the Department of Justice and the FBI to run separate investigations into what happened when the student was shot.
Missouri's Governor Jay Nixon said that state Highway Patrol Captain Ron Johnson, who is black, would take over security in a move aimed at ensuring "that we allow peaceful and appropriate protests, that we use force only when necessary".
Alderman French described how the latest night of violence unfolded as about 200 protesters gathered near the scene of a convenience store which was burnt out by looters. He said: "The protest was as normal, it seemed peaceful, there was a lot of people out there, but just around nine o'clock, all of a sudden the officers got on the bull horn [loud hailer]. They said, 'This is no longer a peaceful assembly' and that everybody should leave or return to their cars. They said it about two or three more times then they said 'This is your final warning' . "They started to move in. As they started, that agitated the crowd. A lot of young men started cursing again at the officers and then the police released smoke bombs and the people scattered and ran. When they realised it was just smoke, not tear gas, some of them started to come back. The police started to move forward with their assault vehicles and their riot gear and then tear gas started coming."
Yesterday senior politicians began to protest at the way police were responding. "This is America, not a war zone," tweeted Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat senator. Claire McCaskill, the Missouri state senator, said: "This kind of response by the police is becoming the problem instead of the solution."
Republican Senator Rand Paul said: "Given the racial disparities in our criminal justice system, it is impossible for African-Americans not to feel like their government is particularly targeting them."
Half a century on, inequality still runs deep Analysis David Taylor Smoke bombs and military-style policing in Ferguson this week have vividly illustrated how, even in the age of Obama, 50 years after the Civil Rights Act passed into law, the battle for equality in the US goes on.
In big cities across the country, one black child in six is taught in an "apartheid school", where 99 per cent of pupils are nonwhite. They have poorer facilities, and young black men are twice as likely as white pupils to leave school with no qualifications.
The disparity continues in unemployment rates and pay, but is most pronounced in the Justice system. There are almost one million black men in US Jails, and black youths aged 18 and 19 are nearly ten times more likely to be in prison than whites of the same age. On present trends, rights groups say, one in three black males born today can expect to spend time in prison.
Mandatory minimum sentences for drug crimes have swollen the prison population, with black people convicted at a higher rate. And while black men make up only 6 per cent of the population, they account for 43 per cent of murder victims.
