 parents on Monday emphatically rejected police accounts of their son's fatal shooting by an unnamed officer on Saturday, calling on witnesses to step forward with information that would cast doubt on law enforcement's version of events. 
Speaking through their lawyer, Benjamin Crump, the family said the 18-year-old, whom teachers described as a "gentle giant," didn't have the personality to try and wrestle away an officer's gun, as police have said.
This family "expects and demands and will not sleep until they get the truth," Crump said during a Monday news conference at Jennings Mason Temple.
"If you are a witness to what happened, don't be intimidated, come forward," Crump said. "People from the U.S. Department of Justice will take statements without any intimidation or fear of retribution."
Crump wouldn't say what the family believed happened, but said witness accounts relayed to them have cast serious doubt on what police are describing.
"We think it'll be very clear when this is over," the civil rights lawyer said. Crump is known for representing the family of Florida shooting victim Trayvon Martin.
Brown's parents also used the event to request that all demonstrations done in their son's honor be nonviolent. The plea came less than 24 hours after a night of unrest .
"He was a good boy. He didn't deserve none of this," 
 Sr., said. "We want justice for our son."
"With no violence," the teen's mother, Lesley McSpadden, added.
She later noted that her son was scheduled to start college this week.
"We can't even celebrate him going to college," she said. "Now we've got to plan his funeral."
The mood at Monday's news conference ranged from fiery to somber, on the second day since the shooting.
Authorities have maintained that a police officer shot Brown, who was unarmed, after the teen attacked the Ferguson officer. Witnesses have said the officer fired multiple shots at Brown while the teen had his hands in the air.
Monday's news conference was supposed to be a chance for Brown's parents to speak publicly. His mother, however, was overcome with tears as she held a photo of her child and was unable to speak more than a few words at a time.
Brown's father, was also visibly shaken throughout the afternoon.
Crump, the lawyer, did most of the talking, calling Brown's killing an execution, and making reference to other young black men from around the country that have been killed by police.
After the news conference, Brown's mother made her way outside the church, where she was consoled by family, requesting that reporters and onlookers give her time to grieve.
Crump, however, pressed her to come back inside the church for an interview with a cable news station.
Funeral details for Brown have not been released.
