BAKERY giant GreMichael Brown ggs has apologised and oered to pay after an independent coee shop claimed its stabroke their sign.
Pink Lane Co ee, on Pink Lane, opposite the Central Station in Newcastle, put out a small A-board to promote it. 
But days after nding it had rst been moved, things came to a head when Greggs stanext door were allegedly seen breaking the sign. After the Chronicle told the tale, Greggs took to their Twitter account in response to the witness accounts and tweeted: "WHAT!!!! [0/00]at's appalling and we want to investigate this properly."
Greggs later took to their account again and tweeted: "We've spoken to @ PINKLANECOee to x it. We'd never break anything on purpose, if we did break it accidentally, we'll pay!!" Pink Lane Co ee owner Anthony Atkinson, said: "We've only had the board about a week and we placed it out over the bollard at the end of the street.
"We noticed on the second day that someone started moving it to the side of the street, near Subway, but nobody in our shop had been spoken to about it.
"I was in the shop on Tuesday afternoon, with the door closed, when I heard this big clatter.
"I went outside and saw the sign on one side and a girl going back into the Greggs shop next door.
"I asked her what she was doing, and she said I would be shouted at if the sign was seen near their shop. I asked her could she not stop, but she said she'd keep moving it - so I asked if she was going to move it, could she not at least do it gently, or she would break it? I then went to pick it up and saw it was already broken - the wood was coming apart.
"It's xable, but it's the principle. I don't know why Greggs think they have the right to move our property in the rst place. If they have a problem with it, then they can come and have a conversation and talk it out."
"  Anthony said he couldn't believe a multimillionpound company could see the small independent as a threat, and so couldn't understand the actions of its st. "We're not trying to attract Greggs customers," he said. "All we want to do is tell people where we are."
Following the damage to the sign, witnesses took to Twitter to express their shock at what they saw.
"Wow! Just watched a Greggs the Bakers employee come out of their shop and remove and break Pink Lane Coee's advertising board," web designer Harry Roberts, from Newcastle said. "Poor show."
