Monday, Aug. 11, marked the 39th anniversary of the beginning of the Watts Riots (Revolt), which took place in the Watts neighborhood of Los Angeles in 1965. This uprising was incited by a set of events, one of them being police violence against a young black man and a young black pregnant woman.
Today, we see a similar revolt taking place in Ferguson, right outside of St. Louis, where young, unarmed 
 was shot and killed by an officer on his way to his grandmother's home. 
 killing and the ensuing outrage, at the same time of this historic event, ironically pivots the question, "How can we best demonstrate our outrage about a historic violent tradition which leaves the blood of our children - young black men and women - repeatedly on the ground?" If America has not fixed its "problem with the negro," what must African-Americans do to demand a cease-fire across the nation and a new lens through which to see black bodies as more than indicators of the propensity toward crime and violence? It requires that we do more than pray. 
On Sunday, I attended an interfaith, interracial prayer vigil in front of the Ferguson Police Department, the occupational home of the officer who shot 18-year-old 
. As the ministers prayed - and I reflected on how many I had attended over the last two years - this constant refrain for "peace" and "justice" was starting to feel like a way to shut up the screaming parents and loved ones of those afflicted, silence the radical youth most directly impacted by these violences, and to privilege white desires for black people to always appear civil while reacting to uncivil manner. The latter is perhaps the ugliest requirement of those who suffer often at the hands of white racist attack and criminalization.
As I stood in front of the big brick police building, I found myself asking "how such national peace-vigil moments activate anything more than a quick fix, or an anesthetic for this murder and the many violences which people of similar communities experience too frequently?" In such a race-antagonistic America, can peace be the instrument of change, especially when the policies, employment of the law, and distribution of freedoms continue to disregard the demands and desires of those furthest down below?
As I was having these thoughts, I hear a minister say "Amen," concluding a powerful prayer that moved from peace talk to that of war. She is invested in addressing spiritual war: the heartache, pain and tears produced at the site of violence. My mind was moving to the more literal: a scene of rage, verbal exchange that produces powerful policy, and maybe even some threats to police power by the legislature. A group of young men and women, marching came to the center of Ferguson Road, parallel to the police department, first putting their hands in the air (a gesture which 
 reportedly made to the police offer in order to show he was unarmed), then proceeded to sit in the street. Ironically, the ministers had began their vigil singing, "We shall not be moved." The main organizer of the vigil discouraged this moment of outrage and sitting over her microphone, deeming it as having the potential to distract from the peaceful work we were doing as we gathered in prayer.
This attitude that the extreme rhetoric, sitting demonstrations and subsequent resistance of these grief-stricken, justifiably angered, and frustrated young is misplaced, inadvertently suggests that there is only one way to seek justice. For me, these young people are not simply saying ignore law enforcement, or disregard the law, but rather they voice a disinterest in the application of the law and the law enforcement we have come to know. Historically, the neighborhood where 
 was killed has been ridden with racial tension, a police force which has rarely if ever understood itself as having a "race problem." Constantly, young black men and women are subjected to verbal, if not physical violence and harassment from officers and those in the surrounding communities - who so often refer to this community as having a "bad element."
Most of us, standing at the vigil in our clergy uniforms adorned with our varying degrees, were not subjected to these violences daily. Therefore, our call for peace and reconciliation is much easier. Most of us are not living in poverty-stricken communities, where the constant entitlement to our space, our property, and even our bodies angers us so, to claim entitlement to resources and material goods denied us historically (i.e. looting). Most of us, reading this post, have not felt without voice for many years and had an opportunity to speak publicly about the deepest terror we face at the hands of those who are supposed to protect us. This is not an indictment on those who stand where they stand, but rather commentary on the driving impulse of a different approach to the urgent hour. Indeed, if violence is approaching one's neighborhood, one can wait for gradual peace and justice; but when violence has arrived, one's actions can be strategically impulsive to demand urgent action.
Knowing this, I cannot see the responses to the killing of 
 as anything but a scene of public disgust - a lawless reaction to a lawless white terrorizing history and present. Unfortunately, peace marches and demonstration have not been able to powerfully capture, or shift, this ugly reality. Indeed, Dr. King was very right in his framing, " A riot is the language of the unheard!" And these revolts must not be stopped by government, tear gas, or the guilt of the respectable others who are embarrassed by public expressions of pain and rage. May we allow this moment of revolt to remind us of the necessity of prayer and its companion we can call resistant, radical and inconvenient work! May this shaking of the streets remind the nation that the Michael Browning of our young men and women must stop!
---
Jeffrey Q. McCune Jr. is an associate professor of Women, Gender and Sexuality Studies and Performance Studies at Washington University in St. Louis. McCune has written extensively on masculinity, race and cultural politics. He is the author of "Sexual Discretion: Black Masculinity and the Politics of Passing."
