PRESIDENT Barack Obama called for "a time of healing" yesterday as a sixth night of racially charged protests loomed in Missouri following the death of a black teenager at the hands of police. 
 Mr Obama broke off from his holiday to address the situation in the St Louis suburb of Ferguson, which has been engulfed by demonstrations and violence since the shooting of 
 on Saturday.
 The president said: "I know emotions are raw right now. We lost a young man, 
, in heartbreaking and tragic circumstances. He was 18 years old. His family will never hold Michael in their arms again.
 "There is never an excuse for violence against police. There is also no excuse for police to use excessive force against protesters. Now is a time for healing. Now is a time for peace and calm on the streets of Ferguson.
 "And it's a time for open and transparent process to see justice is done." According to police, Mr Brown was shot after he and a friend were stopped in the street and he attacked an officer through the patrol car window.
 But Tiffany Mitchell, a witness, said yesterday there had been a "tussle through the window" and Mr Brown seemed to be trying to get away when a shot went off.
 She said: "The kid, he finally gets away and he starts running. As he runs, the police [officer] gets out of his vehicle and he follows behind him shooting."
 She said Mr Brown turned around and put his hands up, but "the cop continued to fire until he just dropped down to the ground and his face just smacks the concrete". Miss Mitchell said she heard at least "five or six" shots.
 Politicians called for a "demilitarisation" of the situation yesterday as police, armed with Pentagon surplus equipment, faced accusations of heavy-handedness. Officers in camouflage and bullet proof vests have used tear gas, stun grenades and rubber bullets against crowds throwing Molotov cocktails. They also manned automatic weapons atop armoured cars, pointing them at protesters.
 Protesters likened the police use of dogs for crowd control to methods used during the civil rights protests of half a century ago. One 18-year-old protester said: "I've had enough of being pushed around because of the colour of my skin. I'm sick of this police brutality. I'm going to keep coming back here night after night until we get justice."
 Jon Belmar, the St Louis County police chief, defended the tactics, saying officers had faced rocks, bottles and gunfire. Two dozen of their patrol vehicles had been destroyed, he said.
 Protests were inflamed after police refused to release the name of the officer who shot Mr Brown, saying they did not want to endanger him. The hacker group Anonymous released a purported name for the officer yesterday, but police said it was incorrect. The policeman, who is white, is on administrative leave.
