, an unarmed 18-year-old African American  fresh out of high school, has joined a long line of  black males gunned down or wrestled down and killed. The white men and/or police officers pulling the trigger claim "reasonable fear" or "self-defense." At the same time, Chicago has experienced a rash of young blacks in gangs killing each other over "territory" or in "retaliation." It's not just whites killing young black men.
A St. Louis Post-Dispatch photograph shows Brown's stepfather, Louis Head, holding a sign reading: "Ferguson police just executed my unarmed son!!!" Police report that Brown shoved the officer into his car, tried to take his gun and a shot was fired. Obviously, there are conflicting reports so it's premature to come to conclusions, but a full federal investigation into what happened is essential. 
I understand the  anger. Protests are legitimate,  but 
 family said that things should not be made worse with looting and vandalism. It will only cloud the real issues. It will not bring 
 back and will not facilitate justice.
How could this happen in suburban Ferguson, Mo.? Many African Americans who grew up around St. Louis got a good education and secured good jobs at McDonnell Douglas (now Boeing) or elsewhere. Better off economically, they moved into various suburban communities in North St. Louis County -- Normandy, Florissant, Bellefontaine Neighbors, Jennings, Berkeley (home of Cedric the Entertainer), Dellwood and elsewhere.
Ferguson is a suburban community that has changed from majority white to 70% African American. I know some of the families there, including two white families.
This is a hardworking, church-going and middle-to-working class community. Families here struggle economically to keep their heads above water. There is also a smaller but growing poor community in Ferguson. It reflects what's happening in America generally. When journalists and politicians speak of a dwindling middle class that's under economic assault and a poor community that's getting bigger, they're talking about Ferguson. Independent of the racial demographics and dynamics of Ferguson, Mo., there's a "Ferguson" near you.
Since President Lyndon Johnson, there has been little effort to rebuild America. Thus we should not be surprised that urban and rural communities, and all points in between, have deteriorated after decades of neglect. If Republicans are the party of "no," Democrats are the party of "don't know." They haven't fought for bold ideas to turn us in a new direction. Policies of community development are being replaced with policies of community containment. We don't have a domestic Marshall Plan, but martial law is a reality.
Here's America today: High unemployment and low graduation rates result in guns and drugs in and jobs out. Hospitals and public schools are closing. Gym, art, music and trade skills are taken out of our public schools. Roads crumble, bridges fall and our public transportation system is outdated. Entrepreneurs have no capital. Abandoned homes and vacant lots spread. Frivolous entertainment, texting and Twitter replace serious news reporting, reading, writing and arithmetic.  All of which leads to hopelessness, despair and cynicism.
Many are observing Ferguson and witnessing the demonstrations, looting and vandalism and calling for quiet. But quiet isn't enough. The absence of noise isn't the presence of justice. We must demand justice in Ferguson and the other Fergusons.
Too many Americans have adjusted to injustice and inequality. But injustice and inequality anywhere is a threat to justice and equality everywhere. To allow injustice and inequality invites a a Ferguson to your community.
The Rev. Jesse L. Jackson Sr. is the founder and president of the Rainbow PUSH Coalition. 
