POLICE SAID an unarmed 18-year-old black man shot by an officer in a St. Louis suburb Saturday was part of a duo that instigated the violent and fatal confrontation. 
Speaking to reporters in a brief news conference Sunday, St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar said that an officer encountered 
 and another individual Saturday afternoon in front of an apartment complex in Ferguson, a predominately black suburb.
As the unnamed officer exited his squad car, one of the men pushed the officer back inside, where a struggle ensued over the officer's weapon, Belmar said.
At least one shot was fired in the car, he said.
After exiting the car, the officer fatally shot Brown, striking him "more than a couple" times about 35 feet away from the car, Belmar said.
Authorities said they were still piecing together what happened inside the car. It's unclear whether it was Brown who struggled with the police officer.
All of the shell casings at the scene matched bullets from the officer's gun, Belmar said, noting that Brown was not armed.
"The genesis of this was a physical confrontation," he said.
Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson said the second person with Brown has not been arrested or charged. Authorities aren't sure if that person was unarmed, Jackson said.
A couple of hundred people protested outside the news conference, held at the local firehouse, chanting, "Don't shoot!" Some marched inside the adjacent police building.
Justice Department spokeswoman Dena Iverson said Sunday that Attorney General Eric Holder had instructed lawyers in the department's Civil Rights Division to monitor developments.
And the Rev. Al Sharpton announced that he planned to visit the area at the request of Brown's family to ensure a fair investigation.
Brown's family continued to express disbelief at the killing of the teenager.
"My grandson never even got into a fight," said grandmother Desiree Harris. "He was just looking forward to getting on with his life. He was on his way."
Local news reports said that Brown was a recent high school graduate who was due to start college classes Monday.
"My son just turned 18 and graduated high school, he didn't bother nobody," distraught mother Lesley McSpadden, furious at the police, told local news channel KSDK.
Belmar said the officer in the shooting, currently on standard administrative leave, had a clean record in his six years on the force.
erosenberg@nydailynews.com
