 is Trayvon Martin, Amadou Diallo and Rodney King. He  is not me. There is no way to talk about race in America without  acknowledging that as a white, middle-class, middle-aged man, race  is merely a conversation for me; if I were a black, it would be my  life, and perhaps my death.  
    Ferguson, Mo., a place of 21,000 residents, with a majority black  population and a minority white population that dominates municipal  government and the Police Department, has been thrust into the  national spotlight in the wake of Brown's death Saturday. The  18-year-old man was killed by a cop, who according to witnesses is  white. An Internet hacking organization has posted the name of the  police officer, but his identity has not been confirmed or released  by local police or mainstream media.   
  The facts are limited: Brown was unarmed. Some claim he had his  hands up, indicating not to shoot. Others say he physically  threatened a police officer. No one disputes that he was without a  weapon or that he is now most definitely dead.  
    In the days following the shooting, Ferguson officials have done  just about everything right if you want to ensure that heated  emotions explode into flames. Demonstrations have turned violent,  buildings burned, and the police response captured on video appears  excessive. Not being on scene, it is impossible to know what level  of force is appropriate. But Ferguson is a powder keg exploding  nightly on the news.  
    Thursday, Missouri Gov. Jay Nixon called for calm. Watching Nixon  on CNN speak inside what looked like a church setting, I realized  why the likes of Chris Christie and Andrew Cuomo dominate the  universe of U.S. governors. Nixon rambled in a folksy style that  might have been good for a mall manager planning the holiday  display, but it was less than reassuring from a chief executive in  the midst of a major crisis.  
    President Obama addressed the issue from Martha's Vineyard, Mass.,  where he is vacationing. He called for calm and respect. He stood  up for journalists -- two were arrested in Ferguson at a  McDonald's. And he said federal officials will investigate Brown's  death.  
    Obama did not speak about race, which was a missed opportunity. No  one should glorify Brown at this point. Whether he was a threat to  police is unknown. But even if he was, the use of deadly force  needs to be explained. And the days of fire and looting need to be  addressed and the persons responsible brought to justice.  
    There is no excuse for vandalism, looting and arson. There is no  excuse for excessive police force. But we do have centuries of  excuses for why it all happens again and again. Perhaps that it is  now happening in the heartland, as Obama noted, or in a state whose  very entry into the Union almost propelled the nation to civil war  40 years before the firing at Fort Sumter, is more than an  accident, but rather an inevitability.  
    My experience in life, having lived in Detroit when it was quiet  and Los Angeles when it burned as mobs chanted "No justice, no  peace" after the acquittal of the police officers charged in the  beating of Rodney King, is that generally the only people who think  there is no race problem in America are white. And for most of us,  there truly is no problem. No one stops us for looking too pale in  an upscale boutique or driving an expensive car.  
    Brown may have provoked police. I do not know. But I do not think  he should be dead.  
    Rodney King was never a model citizen. But he should not have been  savagely beaten by a group of officers.  
    The violence that followed the King acquittals and the Brown  shooting are not excusable, but they are explainable. These are  human earthquakes. Heat, tension and pressure build up, and at some  point at predictable locations but unpredictable times, earth  shifts and swallows and crushes everything above it. We measure  quakes on the Richter scale; riots by whether they generate their  own logo and special on CNN and Fox.  
    Ferguson officials are ill-equipped for the crisis in their town  and the ensuing national attention. They will be overrun by federal  officials, national media and a parade of activists who may have  agendas greater than the well-being of the residents of Ferguson.  That is the nature of how we handle crisis in modern America. I  expect there will be drastic changes in how policing is conducted.  The mayor of Ferguson may find it harder to get elected next term;  so may the governor of Missouri -- if either man intends to remain  in his current office. There may be a shakeup in the Police  Department.  
    There were changes in Los Angeles after the King riots and changes  in New York City after Amadou Diallo. And yet just last month, Eric  Garner died after being put in a chokehold by an NYPD officer.  Sometimes I wonder if America can ever get past the issue of race,  if the sins of our Founding Fathers will ever be expunged from our  collective national soul.  
    Maybe we are a nation with too much historical baggage and too many  carpetbaggers to get to a place where the influx of black families  doesn't signal an exodus of white ones, or where an angry black man  looks identical to an angry white man.  
    People say we have come so far. We have an African-American  president who no longer is asked to produce his U.S. birth  certificate five years into presidency. Maybe we have come far.  
    Or maybe, after so much journeying, we are standing on the streets  of Ferguson, Mo.  
    Alfred P. Doblin is the editorial page editor of The Record.  Contact him at doblin@northjersey.com Follow AlfredPDoblin on  Twitter.
