LETTERS
When violence is thrust upon our young people of color by those who wear the badges of law and order,  the pain and frustration of centuries of disrespect bubble up to our throats like bile. Understandably so. 
But why does this frustration have to be manifested in the destruction of our communities?  You know the news media will report the looting and destruction. Such behavior only justifies the callous attitudes of law enforcement and prevents the world from seeing the racist bullies and hooligans that hide behind those badges.
While we wait for the facts to be revealed in the shooting in Ferguson, Mo., we should gather and go peacefully to the offices of our community leaders, city officials, police departments and demand respect! Demand that they look deep within themselves to determine why they fear our young, black males so much.  Demand that they find positive ways to alleviate that fear! Go every day. Demand respect! But we should do so with dignity, and with our own respect for the life of that young black man.
Bev Byer
Milford, Conn.
Special investigations by truly independent bodies must occur after accusations or other evidence that law enforcement has committed a crime. Many jurisdictions lack accountability. In others, it is ineffectual.
In some cases, prosecutors are criminal and corrupt as well. At times, police have not only refused to police themselves, but they also have covered up crimes other officers have committed. In addition, judges, lawyers, prosecutors and police officers can be afraid to cross the all-too-powerful police unions, adding to the ineffectual accountability. These parties are also too closely intertwined with the police departments or offices of the individuals accused to be relied upon to produce unbiased results.
Therefore, independent bodies must be convened to investigate when law enforcement has been accused of committing crimes.
Jean Lillie
Anthon, Iowa
---
The fatal shooting of 
 a black 18-year-old who was unarmed, by police in a suburb of St. Louis prompted discussions about police force and racism.
Where is the outrage over blacks killing blacks on a daily basis? I live in Louisiana, and just last week a black girl was killed by a stray bullet from gang violence.
Where are the protests for her? With black people, is it always about race?
Scotty Leon
This isn't about race. The news media are constantly talking about this shooting. Do you know what it really is about? Overzealous cops who think they are above the law. Instead of bringing race into it, this is truly an opportunity to intelligently discuss the militarization of the police force.
Chris Buelow
All officers need to wear cameras, ones they can't disable.
@emm_dubya
Federal intervention and civilian oversight committees are imperative in all cities.
@TonyaA6
I will wait until we get all the facts before I form a full opinion. But shooting someone should always be the last resort.
@Alloverthemap10
Can we get all the facts first, please? And can anyone inform me how rioting and looting ever become justified?
Shawn Key
Freedom ends at sunset! When the streetlights come on, all good Americans have to go home.
@miserablecitytv 
