The town of Ferguson, like much of north St. Louis County, was inching its way back after suffering heavily in the real estate and jobs collapse in the last decade.
Then came the conflagration of Sunday night. Now local residents are wondering if recent signs of economic hope could vanish.
Those signs included a rapidly falling number of home foreclosures in North County. Real estate agents in Ferguson and some nearby towns saw signs that prices were stabilizing, or even rising in some neighborhoods. 
Ferguson city government had spruced up its little downtown along Florissant Road. It became a local destination with a wine bar, brew pub and restaurants. Business seemed to be looking up.
The town dangled subsidies in front of new college graduates to get them to buy houses in town, and launched a lending program for home repairs.
"Everyone was very optimistic," said Carolyn Marty, president of the Greater North County Chamber of Commerce.
On Saturday, 
 an unarmed teen, was shot to death by a Ferguson police officer. Crowds took to the streets in protest. On Sunday night, looting and arson broke out on West Florissant Avenue, hitting many businesses in neighboring Dellwood, leaving neighbors and business owners to wonder what comes next.
"I was just devastated. Everybody worked so hard to get North County growing. Everything people were doing for years could be defeated with just one pop of the balloon," said Carol O'Mara, director of housing in Florissant, Ferguson's northern neighbor.
Ferguson, population 21,000, is a town of diversity.
"We have century homes - three-story houses on big lots. We have houses for first-time homebuyers, houses for the middle class, to the upper end," says Rory Schwartz, who has sold Ferguson houses for 30 years.
Much of Ferguson is a picture of pleasant suburbia, with trees lining streets in front of tract houses built during the 1950s and 1960s.
Although it has a mix of housing, Ferguson is mainly a blue-collar town and somewhat poorer than the rest of the region. Median family income was $44,000 in 2012, compared with $75,000 in St. Louis County as a whole and $59,000 for the state of Missouri. The town had a poverty rate of 20 percent, according to the census, compared to 7.8 percent for the county as a whole and 10.7 percent in Missouri.
Like much of North County, Ferguson has also undergone a racial transition, from 52 percent black in 2000 to 66 percent in 2012.
Some worry that TV images of buildings burning could have a psychological impact, damaging business and the housing market in Ferguson and surrounding towns. Reggie Bomar, a real estate agent and landlord with property in Ferguson, worries that people may decide to leave. "If my neighborhood is this explosive, do I get out of here?" he asked.
On the other hand, scenes of looting could fade into memory if future protests are peaceful. "I hope it's not long-lasting, for Ferguson's sake," said Bomar.
Sunday's disturbance came against a recent history of financial distress that altered neighborhoods in parts of North County. The Great Recession and housing bust hit the area particularly hard, both in jobs and in housing, and Ferguson was no exception.
As of March, the typical house in Ferguson was worth 37 percent less than at its peak in 2007, according to the Zillow housing sales website. The region as a whole was down 15 percent.
Ferguson's situation is fairly typical for North County. Economist Bill Rogers at the University of Missouri-St. Louis calculates that a house in most of St. Louis County would be worth roughly half as much if moved to the Ferguson-Florissant School District. It would lose roughly 60 percent of its value in the North County school districts of Normandy, Jennings or Riverview Gardens. Those gaps have been widening since the recession six years ago.
More than the rest of the region, North County suffered from a seven-year run of home foreclosures that saw thousands of homeowners become renters and thousands of homes go from occupant-owned to rental property.
But foreclosures are fading fast. Less than 1 percent of Ferguson houses and apartments units were in foreclosure in the first half of this year, down from 5 percent in 2008, according to RealtyTrac.
Fewer cheap foreclosures on the market has given rise to hope that prices may finally start rising again. "We've been seeing a little bit of an uptick in Ferguson, Florissant and Hazelwood," said Rebecca Zoll, who heads North County Incorporated, the regional economic development group.
There are no good estimates of unemployment for suburban towns. But North County maintains a good employment base. Emerson, a global manufacturer on the Fortune 500 list, is based in Ferguson. Boeing, Express Scripts, the University of Missouri-St. Louis and Mallinckrodt are among big employers producing a $7 billion annual payroll in North County, according to a University of Missouri analysis. Still, the number of jobs has declined.
Ferguson's municipal government fought back with redevelopment programs.
"Over the past few years, they've done remarkably well," Zoll said. "They had lots of new restaurants that opened and housing above the restaurants. Lots of businesses are doing very well in Ferguson right now."
