CONSIDERING his well-publicised bedroom escapades, we can only assume former England manager Sven Goran Eriksson was considerably more interesting when he wasn't talking about football.
Had he been at Vale Park on Saturday, however, you just know the Swede would have nudged his glasses up his nose and declared with monotone indifference:  "First half good, second half not so good." 
It was that sort of occasion. Neither magnificent nor disastrous, more "meh", as the Valiants came away with a point which they just about deserved, but which didn't send the faithful home abuzz with play-off talk or inspired them to sing tHE wONDER OF yOU deep into the night in the  watering holes of Burslem.  
Don't get me wrong, a point against a decent Walsall side is not to be sniffed at, and there was certainly plenty to get excited about in the first half as the Valiants took the game to their old rivals and fully deserved to take the lead when Tom Pope tapped home Mark Marshall's 25th-minute cross.
The second half was a different matter, however, as Walsall dominated possession and showed no more sign of giving the ball back than an angry neighbour who has just had his prize marrow squashed by next door's kids.   
Walsall looked the more likely winners once Tom Bradshaw had equalised on 59 minutes, running on to Ashley Grimes's through ball before steering the ball past Sam Johnson and into the far corner of the home goal. 
However,   Vale held on and could console themselves not only with a share of the spoils but also with promising performances from debutants Ryan McGivern and Mark Marshall. 
That left Micky Adams declaring himself happy enough with the result, although, reading between the lines, not entirely thrilled with the performance.
For example, he said of sponsors' man of the match Mark Marshall: "He certainly pleased me first half - I didn't see him second half." 
That wasn't just a criticism of Marshall, but also the fact Vale failed to get the ball to the wide man, who had given former Valiants right-back James O'Connor a torrid time before the break.
At least with Marshall in the side and Colin Daniel and Byron Moore to come in, Vale should be fine without Jennison Myrie-Williams, who left for Scunthorpe.  
Meanwhile Michael O'Connor, Chris Lines, Steven Jennings and 
 give Adams plenty of options in central midfield, despite the departures of Doug Loft, to Gillingham, and Billy Knott, to Bradford.
Instead, the player Vale are missing most at the moment is Jordan Hugill, the 22-year-old  understudy to Tom Pope who turned down a new deal to sign for Preston.
Hugill wouldn't have started on Saturday, but he would at least have given  Adams an option on the bench when Pope had run himself into the ground after 75 minutes.
Pope describes himself as "the biggest moaner at the club", but Vale's talismanic striker is doing a fine job of playing through some knocks without complaint. 
He had to pass a late fitness test on a groin strain before playing on Saturday, and is still feeling the lingering effects of the ankle ligament injury he suffered in April. 
But after scoring the opener he went within inches of a second three minutes later when he held off centre-half Paul Downing before smashing a 16-yard volley across goal and inches wide of the far post.
Vale don't have a similar player to help out their top scorer of the last two years  so no wonder Adams, with the backing of chairman Norman Smurthwaite,  is working to bring in another striker.  
The manager has far more options elsewhere in the side and pointed out that he had plenty of disappointed players in the dressing room after some tough selection decisions.
He could consider changes for tomorrow's Capital One Cup game at home to Hartlepool as Brown, Jennings, Chris Birchall and Adam Yates must all have been close to selection on Saturday.
However, the toughest call was probably in goal where  Johnson edged out the more experienced Chris Neal. 
That decision shows the manager picks his team without fear or favour because it would have been easier to tell a 21-year-old that he wasn't playing than a 28-year-old  who has just signed a new two-year contract.
Johnson had a solid game having earned his selection with his pre-season performances.  
It's going to be  interesting to see how this one pans out, because if  Johnson continues to play well enough to keep a player as good as Neal out of the side, then you would think some bigger clubs will start to take a serious interest in the 6ft 7in youngster.  Another tough call was for the captaincy, but Carl Dickinson looks an excellent choice. In fact it was a pleasure to interview him on Thursday when it was obvious how proud he is to be leading the team  and how much he was looking forward to his family being at Saturday's game.
His hero is Stuart "Psycho" Pearce, although I'm not sure if Dickinson goes eyeball-to-eyeball with every member of the side before the game to make sure they are up for it.
However, he does look about to issue that sort of challenge to every single member of the Bycars End as he runs towards them, fists pumping, before kick off.  
Some pump their fists back, others just stand to attention while nervously dropping their Maltesers.   
"First half good, second half not so good," I imagine Dickinson and certainly Adams described the second 45 minutes in rather stronger terms in the dressing room.    
