Jimmy Anderson needs eight wickets over the next five days to become England's greatest Test bowler. As he prepared his latest assault on India, Standard Sport heard from some of the men who witnessed his rise to the top. 
Alastair Cook
When I first faced him for Essex against Lancashire, he called me every name under the sun. We then went on an England A tour and didn't speak a word to each other. We were both called up from the West Indies to join the full tour of India and sat together on the plane. Up to then, all he'd said to me were swear words but we're now great friends. What amazes me is how he keeps trying to improve. I've faced a lot of his net bowling and he's always working on something.
MS Dhoni 
He has a fantastic attitude on the field. He is really someone who can take wickets at any point of the game, and that really gives the edge to England. He is very consistent with his line and length and that is something I would like our bowlers to learn from him. I remember the 2007 series in England when he began to bowl the inswingers but he was not really accurate. Over the years, he has made it a weapon for himself and troubles the batsmen a lot, especially the left-handers.
Mark Ramprakash It was apparent immediately from the first two deliveries I faced that he was quite a wily bowler. They were outside my off stump and quick enough to take me by surprise. In the second innings, he got me out first ball with an inswinging yorker that struck me on the toes. It would have knocked out all three stumps. I could tell that this was a young bowler with serious potential. He had pace and swing. If you have those, you have a great chance.
 Jimmy was 10 when we first played together for Burnley Under-13s and my brother, David, was best man at his wedding, so we've known each other a long time. He was just one of five or six talented kids but between 15 and 18 he put on a yard of pace every year. There were some top-class professionals in the Lancashire League but he would still get them out. Not many people know about what he still does for the club. He has donated funds, he came to our golf day and still returns regularly.Mike Ingham
Lancashire League's record run-scorer who faced a young Anderson when playing for Burnley's rivals Haslingden
Even as an inexperienced teenager, he was yards quicker than the other amateurs I was used to facing and what was more, he could do a little bit with the ball. It was pretty clear even at that early stage that he would go on to play county cricket, at the very least. When you're playing in the leagues, the hardest thing to do is to catch the attention of the county. Once you've done that, you either sink or swim. Jimmy went on to bigger and better things.
Glen Chapple
 I remember a couple of games at Blackpool in his first season when he looked absolutely devastating and the next thing I knew he was knocking over international batsmen on my TV in
