 Mr Lionel Jackson, of Grantham, has died. He was 79.
Born at the Old Farm, Fulbeck, the home of his grandparents Kate and Charles Hutchinson, he was the first child of Olive and Les Jackson. 
He was brother to David, Janice, Christine, Jim and Ralph.
His early schooling was in Fulbeck, then Navenby, where the family moved after the war. Later he went to the Boys' Central School in Grantham.
At the age of 18 he was called up for National Service. He joined the Royal Air Force, signing on for five years. Three of those years were spent in Woomera in South Australia.
On his return to the UK he met Penny and they were married in 1960.
Mr Jackson then signed on for another 17 years. The couple spent two years at RAF Steamer Point in Aden, where their daughter Kathryn was born. On their return to the UK he was posted to Norfolk, where Helen was born.
Over the next few years the family moved to Yorkshire, Gloucestershire and South Wales. They settled in Gonerby Hill Foot, Grantham in 1975.
Mr Jackson then worked for South Kesteven District Council in the Environmental Health Department until his retirement at the age of 65.
In later life his main interests were his allotment, stamp collecting and steam trains. Many happy holidays were spent in Somerset and Devon, also France and America, where his daughters lived.
He has five grandchildren, Miles, William, George, Felicity and Georgina.
The funeral service was held at Grantham Crematorium Chapel.
Family mourners included: Penny Jackson, Kathryn, Helen Lodge, George Lodge, Felicity Fereday, Georgina Fereday, Ann and Dave Jackson, Janice Harwood, Christine Heath, Jim Jackson, Fiona and Ralph Jackson, Stuart Jackson, and Richard Jackson.
Other mourners included: Ivor Fowkes, Jo Eggington, Sheila Oxby, Carol Kelly, Les and Kate Morgan, Sue and Steve Calvert, Mary Cooper, John and Margaret Diggins, Marlene Fowkes, Mr and Mrs Davies, Chris and Nicola Farmer, Jennifer Tuxworth (Mitchell), Sally Dalby, Mandy Gee, Declan Ryan, Jenny Jones, Dawn and Edwin Gregory, Helen Willey, Joy Foster, Vicky Jones, Jane Warren, Trevor and Glenys Eldred, Peter Giles, John Bilton, Pam Robinson, Linda Johnstone, Claire Watson, Christian Polzin, Steve Watt, Sue Flattley, Dennis Key, Sandra Stevens, Jack Blythe, Joan Miller, Irene Parker, Vivian Wing, 
 Kate Lepley, Michael and Margaret Dean, Warren and Tina Wells, Ian and Maureen Newton, Kay, Aidan and Jordan Wright, and Elizabeth Bowen (Gonerby Hill Foot WI).
Funeral arrangements were by Robert Holland, St Catherine's Road, Grantham.
Donations were received for the British Heart Foundation and League of Friends, Grantham Hospital. 
