THE selling of the Asian Cup has begun in earnest, with organisers unveiling a quartet of "ambassadors" to drive home the message that a top-class football tournament is heading for Australia.
Needing to shift some $14.5m of tickets by the start of the tournament on January 9, the Local Organising Committee (LOC) yesterday appointed Brett Emerton, Paul Okon and Rale Rasic, plus the only Asian Cup winner in the A-League, Sydney FC's Ali Abbas.
The four join Lucas Neill and Alessandro Del Piero as the face of the tournament, with organisers having to wait for the focus on the World Cup to finish in order to start raising public awareness. 
Hopes are high that the Socceroos will be highly competitive at the Asian Cup, after their performances in Brazil at the World Cup, but the tournament faces a major battle to lure fans to games up and down the Eastern seaboard.
Australia will be one of 16 teams taking part, in a group with South Korea, Kuwait and Oman, and the vast majority of tickets sold so far have been for the home side's fixtures.
So far the organisers have concentrated on low-level marketing by working with schools and community groups, but the level of public awareness has remained low.
Yesterday the competition's CEO, 
 conceded that the deployment of the ambassadors was to start to pique the interest of sports fans whose attention will also be sought by the Australian Open tennis and the cricket World Cup at the start of next year.
"It's about giving the Asian Cup the respect it deserves - such a big sporting event and it's heading to our shores," he said. "We want the ambassadors to play a meaningful role in spreading the word- that the world's most beautiful game is going to be on here.
"Like us, they want to show the world what Australia is capable of. They want people from all around Australia, and throughout Asia, to come and watch 32 great games of football involving the region's football elite, and make it the biggest and best Asian Cup ever." Brown said that 40 per cent of the tickets had been sold so far, with the Socceroos' games against Kuwait and South Korea the biggest sellers. "We're happy but we know we've a long way to go," Brown said.
"The week after the A-League begins (in October), we'll really launch our marketing campaign through to Christmas. It's very hard to determine where we should be at this point, especially as the history of football in this country shows the majority of the crowds tend to be walk-up.
"But if we can sell 500,000 tickets overall, we'll be very happy." Meanwhile Okon said that "all of us who love football" should be part of the push to make the tournament a success.
"I have three young boys who are crazy about football," said the Young Socceroos coach.
"They are already asking when they can go and watch Australia. All of us who love football have an added responsibility to make the Asian Cup a great success by watching as many games as we can."Hopefully we can make a statement worldwide that we are not only a good footballing nation but also a country that can host a serious football tournament."
