Violence again erupted in the St Louis area near the site of the police shooting death of an unarmed black teenager, according to local police, despite calls by US president Barack Obama and activists for a measured response.
Early yesterday, a police officer shot and critically wounded a man who drew a handgun near the site of protests over the death of 
 (18), a St Louis county police department officer said.
Police responded about an hour after midnight to reports of four or five men with shotguns and wearing ski masks. They encountered multiple suspects running, one of whom pulled a gun on an officer, who fired at him, the county officer said. The man was taken to a local hospital. 
The incidents followed two nights of violent protests, looting and arrests in Ferguson, the largely black St Louis suburb where the shooting of Mr Brown took place.
Mr Obama promised a full investigation by the US department of justice into the teenager's death. "I know the events of the past few days have prompted strong passions, but . . . I urge everyone in Ferguson, Missouri, and across the country, to remember this young man through reflection and understanding," he said.
Friends and family of Mr Brown held a peaceful church vigil on Tuesday night, after his father pleaded for an end to the violence. 
Standing with supporters, including the Rev Al Sharpton, 
 snr said he wanted justice for his son but wanted it "the right way".
"I need all of us to come together and do this right, the right way," said Mr Brown snr, who wore a T-shirt showing his son's baby picture. "No violence."
Drive-by shooting Yesterday, a woman was shot in the head in a drive-by shooting blocks from the area where Mr Brown was killed. Her condition and whether the shooting was related to the protests were unknown, a spokesman for the police department said.
In a separate incident simmering in California, a vigil was planned after Monday's shooting death of an unarmed 24-year-old black man in Los Angeles, 
 cited a Los Angeles police department spokeswoman as saying.
Rev Sharpton, a New York-based civil rights leader, called for peaceful protest in the wake of looting and more than 50 arrests since the shooting. 
"To become violent in 
 name is to betray the gentle giant that he was," Rev Sharpton said of the 6ft 4in teenager, who had planned to start college this week.
Missouri governor Jay Nixon told a packed church in north St Louis county on Tuesday evening that the community was "reeling from what feels like an old wound that has been torn open afresh".
The activists were demanding that authorities make public the name of the officer involved. The police had said they would do so on Tuesday, but changed the plan, citing fears of retaliation, according to media reports.
Police said Mr Brown was shot in a struggle with a gun in a police car but have not said why he was in the car. At least one shot was fired during the struggle, and then the officer fired more shots before leaving the car, police said.
A witness to the shooting interviewed on local media has said that Mr Brown had been putting his hands up to surrender when he was killed. 
The FBI has opened a civil rights investigation into the racially charged case and St Louis county is also investigating. - (Reuters)
