 Generation Progress has issued the following news release:
ICYMI, here's your dose of vital information for your everyday life.
Houston Mayor Takes On Texas Abortion Law. If House Bill 2 goes into effect in Texas on Sept. 1, only six or seven abortion clinics will be left open in the state, and Mayor Annise Parker of Houston is calling for its repeal. Mayor Parker, along with eight members of the Houston City Council, sent a letter to the Texas Legislature and U.S. Congress, calling on members to pass the Women's Health Protection Act. The act, cosponsored by 35 U.S. Senators including Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), would prohibit states from enacting restrictive measures--like House Bill 2--on access to abortion services. [Cosmopolitan] 
#IfTheyGunnedMeDown Sends Powerful Message. In the wake of the shooting of 
 an unarmed African-American teenager, by police in Ferguson, Mo., folks took to Twitter to illustrate how the media can construct negative narratives of gun violence victims, especially if they're a racial minority. With the hashtag #IfTheyGunnedMeDown, users paired two different images of themselves to demonstrate how news outlets would choose the photo that could be distorted over the photo of personal triumph--like graduation or army service. According to the BBC, the hashtag was used more than 100,000 times in 24 hours. [NPR]
Uber Caught Lyfting Rides From The Competition. According to data Lyft provided to CNN Money, the San Francisco-based transportation company was sabotaged by employees of their direct competitor: Uber. Uber, named the 2013 tech company of the year by USA Today, is being accused of having their employees book and cancel Lyft rides, which decreases driver availability and threatens those driver's income. Lyft discovered Uber's tactics by cross-referencing "phone numbers associated with known Uber recruiters with those attached to accounts that have canceled rides," according to CNN Money. It's a war of the ridesharing worlds--whose side are you on? [CNN Money]
For further information please visit: http://www.genprogress.org
