FERGUSON, Mo. The FBI said Monday it has opened an inquiry into the weekend shooting death of an unarmed black teenager by a police officer that sparked a night of looting and vandalism in this suburb of St. Louis. 
Special Agent Cheryl Mimura, of the FBI's office in St. Louis, said the agency had begun an investigation into possible civil rights violations connected to the death of 
 18.
The circumstances of Brown's death remained in sharp dispute two days after he was killed by a police officer in Ferguson, a city of about 21,000 northwest of St. Louis. Police have said an officer, who has not been identified, was "physically assaulted" before opening fire early Saturday afternoon. Authorities also said there had been a struggle "over the officer's weapon."
But critics have questioned the police's account and demanded that the officer face prosecution.
On Monday, Chief Jon Belmar of the St. Louis County Police said an autopsy had shown that Brown had been "struck several times by gunfire."
Belmar's agency has been leading the investigation, and Mimura said the county police would continue their work as the FBI conducted its review.
At a news conference Monday, Belmar pleaded for the public's patience.
"I understand that the public has a right to be skeptical, and I appreciate that and I would expect that the public be skeptical oftentimes of government or some forms of it," he said. "But I would also ask the public to be reasonable because it takes a long time to make sure we do this investigation the right way."
In Washington, a Justice Department spokeswoman, Dena Iverson, said Monday that Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. had instructed lawyers in the Civil Rights Division to monitor developments in the shooting.
Officials on Monday were also absorbing the consequences of what they said was an unprecedented night of chaos for Ferguson.
"I've been doing this 28 years," the chief said. "Not only have I never seen anything like this, I've never even heard about it in the history of St. Louis."
A vigil Sunday for Brown was followed by angry demonstrations overnight after protesters took to the streets, looting stores, vandalizing cars and confronting police.
Officer Brian Schellman, a spokesman for the county police, said 32 people were arrested. He also said two police officers were injured, including one who was struck by a brick.
People smashed car windows and carried away armloads of looted goods from stores Sunday night after thousands of people packed a suburban St. Louis area at a vigil.
Some people looted a convenience store. Several other stores along a main road near the shooting scene were broken into and looted, including a check-cashing store, a boutique and a small grocery store.
People were seen carrying bags of food and toilet paper. TV footage showed streams of people walking out of a liquor store carrying bottles of alcohol, and in some cases protesters were standing atop police cars or taunting officers who stood stoic, often in riot gear.
Other witnesses reported seeing people vandalize police cars and kick in windows. Television footage showed windows busted out of a TV station van.
