FERGUSON o A day of protests and vigils Sunday for an unarmed black teenager who was shot to death by a Ferguson police officer erupted Sunday night with confrontations, looting and gunshots.
Authorities said that a police officer shot an unarmed black teenager Saturday after the teen attacked the Ferguson officer. But pressure for a deeper explanation grew locally and nationally throughout the day Sunday.
Hundreds of people gathered at the shooting site Sunday night for a vigil for 
, 18, who was to begin technical school classes today.
While some people prayed, others spilled onto West Florissant Avenue, choking off traffic. The situation grew more tense as the night wore on. Looting was reported at a QuikTrip at 9420 West Florissant Avenue about 9 p.m. Businesses along West Florissant were broken into. Around 11 p.m., looting was reported at a Walmart in the area. A large fire was burning at West Florissant and Northwinds Estates Drive. 
A civilian was reported severely beaten near West Florissant and Chambers.
At Ferguson Avenue and West Florissant Avenue, hundreds of demonstrators blocked traffic. They were taunting police officers, who were lined up in riot gear, carrying shields and batons.
"It could have been one of your kids," yelled Charles Staton, 35, of Ferguson, at the officers. "Protect and serve. They aren't protecting."
At the same time, about 100 people remained in front of the Ferguson police station, where South Florissant Road was also blocked by demonstrators. There, the emphasis was on keeping the peace.
St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar promised a thorough outside investigation.
"It's turning into something it's not supposed to be," Darryl Jones of Pine Lawn said as the looting began.
Late Sunday, County Executive Charlie Dooley came to the line and tried to convince demonstrators to leave. His efforts were yelled down. Eventually, officers moved their line forward. "It's time to leave," the officers said. Reporters on the scene said the area calmed down shortly after as action moved elsewhere.
Some people were caught in the crowds, though, and couldn't leave. J.R. Grace, came for the vigil but never made it because of the blockade. "The businesses didn't kill that man. That's not going to solve anything," he said. "That's only going to make things worse."
Gunshots were reported in the area late Sunday, and a SWAT team was seen in the area. Hundreds of police officers were reported on the scene.
Jimmy Mohammad, 32, was among people arming themselves to protect their own property. Mohammad, with a gun in his hand, said he was protecting his uncle's store, United Mart, 10393 West Florissant Avenue. "It's bad. I don't blame the police, but they can't keep up." He said he believed some of the looters were armed.
NATIONAL IMPLICATIONS
Benjamin L. Crump, a civil rights lawyer known for representing the family of Florida shooting victim Trayvon Martin, announced Sunday night that he had been hired to represent Brown's family. Crump is based in Tallahassee, Fla.
In Washington, a spokesperson said Attorney General Eric Holder asked civil rights lawyers in the Justice Department to monitor the case. In St. Louis, Special Agent Cheryl Mimura said, "I can confirm that the FBI is working closely with the St. Louis County PD to review the matter at this time."
Protesters complained that the killing was emblematic of deep tensions between black residents of North County and a predominantly white Ferguson police force. Officials have not revealed the race of the officer who killed Brown.
"We have to stick together because we are targets," said Robert Brefford, 26, an African-American musician from Berkeley who spoke in front of the police station Sunday night. He said police in the area pull over, poke and prod black drivers.
"The bleeding began long before 
," said Pastor Traci Blackmon of Christ the King United Church of Christ, in nearby Florissant.
She passed a petition seeking a dialogue with officials. "We come in peace," she said. "But we are angry and in need of action and answers."
Shontell Walters, of Berkeley, complained to stone-faced police outside their headquarters: "This child was ready to go to college and you killed his dream." She added, "He is not coming back. He could have owned a business and made money for Ferguson someday, but you killed him."
Dooley visited the protesters around noon Sunday to acknowledge their "justifiable anger" and implore them to "channel this anger into justice." But the group turned on him for expressing confidence in the ability of county police to do a fair investigation, buffeting him with heated rhetoric and questions.
"How can we protect our children?" one mother screamed at him.
The shaken Dooley responded, "This is not the way to console the family right now."
The NAACP and State Sen. Jamilah Nasheed, D-St. Louis, joined a chorus seeking a federal investigation.
State Sen. Maria Chappelle-Nadal, D-University City, said, "This demonstration has to happen to release all the negative energy people are feeling on the inside. And we are doing it peacefully."
Activist Zaki Baruti said the presence of police dogs near demonstrations reinforced the perception of bias against black people. "It sends a very negative message, and it is a very insensitive reaction to the outrage of the people," he said.
Another protest was scheduled for 10 a.m. today outside the police station. And the St. Louis County NAACP is planning a mass public meeting at 6 p.m. today at Murchison Tabernacle Church, 7629 Natural Bridge in St. Louis.
The Rev. Al Sharpton, a New York-based civil rights leader, called the shooting "very disturbing" and said he planned to meet here with Brown's family today or Tuesday.
The demonstrations Sunday drew national news media attention to two sites: the police station, at 222 South Florissant Road, and the street where Brown fell, in the 2900 block of Canfield Drive.
'FERGUSON KILLED MY SON'
Brown's stepfather, Louis Head, sat cross-legged, head in hands, sobbing Sunday morning before a memorial on Canfield that would grow exponentially though Sunday with teddy bears, flowers and tributes.
"Ferguson killed my son," he said. "Ferguson flat-out murdered my son in the street, a cold-blooded murder."
In a news conference Sunday morning, Belmar, the county police chief, said the Ferguson officer had an encounter with two "individuals" about noon Saturday and that Brown pushed the officer back into his car and "assaulted" him in the vehicle.
Belmar said one shot was fired by the officer's gun inside the car during the struggle, hitting no one, and that the officer then fired multiple times as Brown ran away. Brown fell dead in the street. Belmar said the crime scene covered a distance of just 35 feet.
AUTOPSY IS PENDING
Belmar did not describe the reason for the initial contact, nor indicate whether police think the shooting was justified. He also did not provide any details about the person who had been with Brown.
He said the shots that hit Brown were "more than just a couple but I don't think it was many more than that." He said an autopsy was pending.
The chief said the investigation's results will be forwarded to St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Robert McCulloch, whose office would decide whether criminal charges were justified.
Belmar noted that as Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson arrived at the scene Saturday, he called Belmar to ask for a county investigation.
Jackson sat beside Belmar but did not speak in a short news conference at 10 a.m. at the community's firehouse.
Belmar emphasized that the outside investigation and consultation with the FBI - which has jurisdiction over allegations of civil rights violations by police - are "standard protocols."
The officer who fired, whose name has not been disclosed, is now on administrative leave. Belmar said that officer has been on the Ferguson force for six years and appears to have "no other issues" in his past. Belmar and Jackson abruptly left the news conference as reporters continued to call out questions.
