WIGAN manager Uwe Rosler's decision to make 10 changes to his side for last night's trip to Burton backfired spectacularly as the Latics threw away a lead to lose 2-1. Martyn Waghorn was the only player who remained from Saturday's 2-2 draw with Reading but the team line-up did not seem to matter when Marc-Antoine Fortune's fine 27th-minute shot gave them the lead. 
But League Two Burton hit back before the break, with sub Dominic Knowles slotting home John Mousinho's clever cross in first-half stoppage time.
And on-loan Preston striker Stuart Beavon scored his first goal for the club seven minutes after the break after Lucas Akins' cross fell loose in the box to seal victory.
Ben Williamson scored a 10-minute hat-trick as Port Vale thumped Hartlepool 6-2. Williamson scored in the eighth, 14th and 18th minutes before being taken off in the 73rd minute. Hartlepool reduced the deficit through Jonathan Franks and a penalty from Neil Austin, but Vale stretched their lead with a goal from 
 and two from Tom Pope.
Northampton substitute Lawson D'ath struck twice on his debut in a 3-2 win over Wolves at Molineux. The midfielder netted with his first touch after his 56th-minute introduction with a shot which squirmed through the hands of Wolves keeper Aaron McCarey.
Ivan Toney headed in Kaid Mohamed's corner moments later before Wolves staged a fightback to level.
Nouha Dicko cracked the ball home from close range and Sam Ricketts curled the ball past Cobblers keeper Matt Duke from 25 yards out.
But Northampton's D'ath silenced the home fans for a second time when his shot looped over McCarey and trickled over the line.
Souleymane Doukara's double gave Dave Hockaday a first win as Leeds manager as the Whites brushed aside League Two Accrington Stanley 2-1. Doukara's fine touch and finish from Gaetano Berardi's delivery gave Luke Simpson no chance.
Striker Doukara made it 2-0 when he lashed a left-foot finish home after another neat piece of control after receiving Lewis Cook's pass. James Gray scored a late consolation for Accrington.
New Nottingham Forest favourite Michail Antonio spoiled Mark Palios's homecoming as the former Football Association chief executive made a losing start as Tranmere's new owner.
Palios watched from the directors' box as new signing Antonio scored his second goal in as many games as Forest held out 1-0 with 10 men.
