Britons fear terrorist threat
The vast majority of Britons feel threatened by Islamic terrorism, according to a poll showing a jump in public support for Britain to join air strikes against militants in northern Iraq. Eight out of 10 people think that it poses a domestic threat, with 40 per cent now wanting the government to launch bombing raids on the Islamic State (Isis), which has occupied large parts of Syria and Iraq. Support for British bombing of militants in Iraq grew from 37 per cent on Tuesday to 40 per cent yesterday, according to a YouGov poll, with 36 per cent opposing in both. By comparison, only 25 per cent of Britons backed intervention in Syria a year ago after its citizens were subjected to chemical attacks.
New ceasefire proposal 
Egypt presented a proposed ceasefire to Israel and Hamas aimed at ending the month-long war, Palestinian officials said yesterday after a second day of Egyptian-mediated talks aimed at ending the crisis and bringing relief to the embattled Gaza Strip. After more than 10 hours of talks Palestinian officials said that Egypt's proposal calls for easing parts of the Israeli blockade of Gaza. But it leaves the key areas of disagreement to later negotiations, including the Islamic militant group Hamas' demand for a full lifting of the blockade and Israeli calls for Hamas to disarm.
Call to boycott Israeli goods
South Africa's former president has called for a boycott of Israeli goods to make its government "pay a price for the position that it is taking" in Gaza. Thabo Mbeki called on the government of President Jacob Zuma, his successor, to step up diplomatic efforts to end the conflict, which he has in the past compared to his own country's apartheid policies. "South Africa has an obligation to engage the Israelis and to see what can be done to move as quickly as possible towards a just solution of this conflict," he told students in Pretoria.
Car makers 'helped junta'
A Brazilian commission examining the crimes of the former military dictatorship is investigating whether big foreign car manufacturers such as Volkswagen, Ford, Rolls-Royce, Toyota and Mercedes-Benz helped the junta to persecute union activists and left-wing "subversives". The National Truth Commission, set up two years ago by President Dilma Rousseff - herself a former political prisoner - says that newly unearthed documents suggest that the car makers helped to draw up blacklists to prevent known "troublemakers" from finding work.
Officer's name kept secret
The police chief in a Missouri city where a police officer fatally shot an unarmed black teenager said yesterday that he is holding off on publicly identifying the officer because of death threats. Civil rights leader Al Sharpton, standing with the parents of 18-year-old 
 criticised the decision, saying the secrecy is fuelling mistrust of the police in Ferguson, a predominantly black city of about 21,000 residents where violent protests broke out after the shooting. Police have released few details, saying only that a scuffle unfolded after the officer asked Brown and another teenager to get out of the street. At some point, the officer's weapon fired inside a patrol car, police said. Witnesses have said that Brown had his hands raised when the officer approached and fired repeatedly.
Bridge at bargain price
If you have somewhere to put it, local officials in Portland, Oregon, are offering a decrepit 335-metre-long steel and concrete bridge at a knock-down price. Mike Pullen, spokesman for Multnomah County, said potential buyers will need to prove they have somewhere to keep the 88-year-old bridge, funds to move it, and a plan to relocate it without its lead paint contaminating the environment.
