Riviera Beach -- In the month that Chris Emmitt has lived in Riviera Beach, he's often been left to wonder if he resides in a war zone.
"Every day since I got here, I've heard gunshots at random times during the day or night or I'm getting news pop-ups on my phone about another shooting here and another shooting there," Emmitt said. "It's all the time."
The city's most recent spasm of violence occurred during a one-hour span Saturday when one man died and four other people were shot in three separate -- but related -- incidents, according to police. Riviera Beach Police Chief Clarence Williams said late Monday afternoon that suspects in the shooting have been identified as members of two rival gangs, and he expressed confidence that arrests will be made soon. 
"We know who they are and we're coming after them," Williams said. "It's a game they can't win."
The unidentified man killed on Saturday was the sixth homicide victim this year in Riviera Beach. There were nine murders inside the city boundaries in all of 2013, according to a Palm Beach Post database.
The violence spilled over last week to nearby Mangonia Park, where three teenagers were found shot to death at the Hampton Court Apartments. No arrests have been made in that case.
"It's something we deal with every week, every day," said Marie Jean-Pierre, founder of the Valley of Love Ministries, which caters primarily to Riviera Beach's homeless population. "This is getting to be too much right now. It's got to stop."
The scourge of violent crime is nothing new for Riviera Beach. In 2012, a national organization ranked the city as the 13th most dangerous in the U.S. That standing improved to 37th in 2013, but Riviera Beach was still listed as worse than cities with more notorious crime histories, including Washington D.C., Compton, Calif., and Newark, N.J.
Riviera Beach officials said at the time that the numbers were incorrect because Neighborhood Scout, which compiled the rankings, used statistics from outside city limits.
Roscoe McPhee, 43, has lived in Riviera Beach all his life and said he's been the victim of a couple of robberies.
"I put it on the parents," McPhee said. "You have a younger generation out here who think they can do whatever they want. They have to be tougher on these kids."
Williams agrees, saying that if the city's crime trouble "was purely about law enforcement, we would have this problem resolved by now."
 a civil trial lawyer who served as Riviera Beach's mayor from 1999 to 2007, said the city will continue to suffer with violent crime issues as long as underlying factors such as poverty are ignored. Brown estimates that 40 to 50 percent of young men in Riviera Beach are unemployed, and that with limited employment prospects, many turn to illegal activities.
"Everyone is asking, 'What's going on?'~HOA~128~128~" Brown said. "Well, you take any group of people anywhere who feel they have nothing to live for, have lost hope, have no aspirations and few dreams, this is what you get. I'm disappointed and saddened by it, but I'm not surprised by it."
Brown said he's heard residents complaining that police are not doing enough, but he calls that sentiment misplaced.
"It's an emotional thing to say, 'What about the police?'~HOA~128~128~" Brown said. "But the police show up after something bad happens so the police is not the answer. The answer is to create jobs and opportunities."
City officials said Monday there are developing plans to hold a "peace rally" this weekend to unite the community.
But others point out that anti-violence marches have been held in Riviera Beach for years and not much has changed.
"Rallies are great to energize people and get them engaged," Williams said. "The challenge is, what do we do after the rally?"
jmilian@pbpost.com Twitter: @jorgemilian1
