DELLWOOD o Ferguson-area businesses grappled Monday with the aftermath of weekend looting that left windows shattered and store shelves empty.
The violence started Sunday evening in response to the fatal police shooting of 18-year-old 
 By the time it ended early Monday, more than two dozen businesses in Ferguson and neighboring Dellwood were damaged or looted.
Monday found near bumper-to-bumper traffic up and down the ravaged stretch of West Florissant Avenue, where many businesses - even those untouched by violence - remained closed. 
Among those striving to put things in order was Zisser Tire & Auto, where workers spent the day installing plywood over the shattered remains of massive glass panels that once bordered the showroom on three sides.
Owner John Zisser, who hopes to be open again today, said looters nabbed display wheels and tires along with a customer's car. They would have taken more - after breaking into a warehouse in back - but police showed up in time to stop them, he said.
Zisser, who learned about the break-in while watching TV coverage Sunday night, was left shaken by the events.
"I don't understand," Zisser said. "We've never had black-white issues here in the store."
A quick survey of the damaged businesses suggests a pattern focused on auto parts suppliers, cellular phone stores, payday loan offices, beauty shops and larger retailers such as Walmart, Family Dollar and Toys R Us.
Of course, not every business fit that pattern. Outliers included a Taco Bell, a barbecue restaurant and, oddly, St. Vincent de Paul's Thrift Store, at 10052 West Florissant Avenue.
Manager Bill Andre arrived early Monday morning to find that a brick was used to shatter the store's front door. But that was the extent of the damage, with the looters apparently deciding to move on without taking anything.
"You're curious what their thought process was," Andre said. "But who wants used clothing when you can take new shoes?"
Andre said the thrift store decided to open for business Monday with a skeleton crew, after a couple of employees expressed worries about working. He planned to close early, concerned that new violence could erupt later in the day.
The southern end of the rioting centered around the QuikTrip at 9420 West Florissant Avenue. The burned-out shell of a convenience store was a focal point for fresh, though quieter, demonstrations Monday. A few dozen protesters were camped out on the graffiti-marred site throughout the day, waving signs and receiving encouragement from passing cars.
QuikTrip spokesman Mike Thornbrugh said it's too soon to say what the company will do with that location. "We haven't even discussed it," he said.
But he said employees who worked at that store will be offered transfers to other stores in the area.
The company also has temporarily closed another of its stores, farther north on West Florissant.
The largest targets of the mob were found on the northern end of the crime spree, where Walmart and Toys R Us both remained closed Monday.
A Toys R Us spokeswoman said cleanup is underway. "At this time, we do not know when we will be ready to reopen," Kathleen Waugh said in an email.
A Walmart spokesman also offered no timetable for that store's return to business, saying the company is still assessing the damage.
"We're still learning about what happened last night. But it's safe to say it was significant," said Brian Nick, of the chain based in Bentonville, Ark.
In the meantime, he said employees would still be working at the store to help get it ready for its reopening.
"The associates will still be doing work. It will just be a different kind of work," he said.
While most of the damaged stores were located along the West Florissant corridor - stretching just north of I-270 - the looting also extended east hitting the shopping center, anchored by the Home Depot, at New Halls Ferry Road and I-270.
On Monday, it was unclear whether the home improvement store was hit, but several nearby businesses, including Nu Fashion Beauty, Party City and Boost Mobile, were boarded up.
The fact that so many businesses lost windows during the rioting created a small business boom, of sorts, for companies such as AM Richards Glass Co., which had five trucks working the area throughout the day.
"It's crazy. I've never seen anything like it," said Steve Crandall, whose family owns the company. "It's not something you'd expect from a small suburb of St. Louis."
Crandall said it would likely take a month or so before all the riot-ruined windows are replaced. That, he said, is based on his experience in dealing with insurance companies in other instances of large-scale damage - like when intense storms, or tornadoes, come through the area.
"It looks just like a storm blew through here. A storm of people," he said.
