The scene harkened to familiar images of battles in Iraq: men in black helmets and body armor sitting on top of armored personnel carriers, rifles at the ready, and surveying the civilian population.
Except this was in middle America, and the civilian population was made up of  people demonstrating with their hands up to protest the police shooting of an unarmed black teen.
A day after St. Louis County police clashed with protesters in Ferguson, Mo., throwing tear gas canisters, shooting them with rubber bullets and using long-range acoustic weapons that are loud alarms meant to cause ear-splitting pain, a national debate has ignited, questioning the  militarization of local police. 
The St. Louis County Police Department, which has been patrolling Ferguson during the unrest that following the shooting of 
 has been criticized for heavy-handed tactics that include intimidating peaceful protesters and journalists.
"I am deeply concerned that the deployment of military equipment and vehicles sends a conflicting message," U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said in a statement Thursday.
Missouri state officials are now taking a different tack. Gov. Jay Nixon promised Thursday a "different tone" and an "operational shift" by police, and he appointed the State Highway Patrol to take over supervision of security.
Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., said earlier Thursday that  "it is my understanding that the county police will be taken off the investigation" into the fatal shooting Saturday of Brown, 18, by a Ferguson police officer.
"The police response needs to be demilitarized," she said. "I think the police response has be come part of the problem as opposed to ... part of the solution."
The mayor of the city of St. Louis, Francis Slay, told USA TODAY the situation was mishandled. "It creates a higher level of anxiety and higher level of anger."
The city of St. Louis is  the largest municipality in the region, but it operates separately with its own government and police force from neighboring St. Louis County, where Ferguson is located. The city has no authority over the police department in the county.
The anxiety was evident among Ferguson residents, where in recent days, members of the St. Louis County Police SWAT unit patrolled the town dressed in fatigues, carrying automatic assault rifles and driving  in tanks. The effect was a city turned war zone.
At varying instances, the officers faced hundreds of angry protestors, some of whom  destroyed parts of the city. At barricades set up by police officers near a convenience store, officers pointed rifles at cars that came too close. Officers also screamed for reporters to duck behind their cars or risk being shot in the crossfire.
Wednesday night, the sounds of flash bomb grenades and the stench of tear gas filled the streets and captured the attention of a riveted nationSt. Louis County Police then arrived with four armored trucks. Some 100 officers in masks and fatigues yelled at protestors to leave. A long line of authorities formed and  addressed the crowd as if they had been rioting.
"We won't tolerate non-peaceful actions," an officer on a loud speaker yelled, later telling protestors to put down their rocks and weapons. The problem: No one had weapons nor had they thrown any rocks at the Ferguson police in several hours. People who had been singing  and playing drums now angrily yelled back.
Sierra Smith, who lives  near the center of the protests, told the governor on Thursday that her neighborhood was under  siege. "Every night we're tormented. The police have no respect at all for the community."
But Chuck Canterbury, president of the national Fraternal Order of Police, a union that represents more than 325,000 officers nationwide, defended the actions of the Ferguson and St. Louis County police.
He says that he has spoken with officers there and that they have been responding to the violence, not starting it.
Bello reported from McLean, Va.
Contributing: Aamer Madhani in Ferguson. 
