Events in Ferguson, Missouri, seem far away from the relative calm of coastal California, but the slaying of the unarmed 18-year-old 
 and the resulting civil unrest is a reminder that we're far from the so-called post-racial world that optimists had once predicted.
And as supportive as we are of the challenges facing law enforcement in today's world, we lament the declining confidence that many in our communities are feeling about the fairness of the police. 
Individual events take on massive importance in today's hyper-connected world. A killing in Ferguson   a town virtually unknown a week ago   now dominates our television screens and social media feeds. Importantly, that awareness tends to make us look into our own communities and contemplate how well justice is delivered and whether all people, regardless of ethnicity, are being treated fairly.
In short, we must do better. Not just the police   everyone.
We've long argued that society leaves too many of our social problems aside and asks the police to clean it all up for us. Homelessness, gang violence, poverty and mental illness are all of society's making, but the first line of defense against law and order is left to the men and women of law enforcement.
And we expect perfection from them. The large majority of police officers handle all sorts of social and criminal situations daily with unsullied professionalism. We really only hear about cases when something goes wrong. Alas, things do go wrong.
That drama plays out here   in Monterey, Salinas, Watsonville and Santa Cruz. Crime and violence is all too real, and it generally victimizes those who can afford it least in the neighborhoods where poverty and unemployment dominate.
In Salinas, the community is asking for answers following four fatal officer shootings in the past few months   all of which resulted in the deaths of Latino men. In Santa Cruz, the situation was a reminder that the danger works both ways   two officers slain last year by a lone gunman.
As for events in Ferguson, we were encouraged by the words of President Obama, who both issued a call for calm and also a request for a full investigation of both the shooting of the young man and the aftermath of police action in making widespread arrests   even of reporters trying to cover the story.
Police behavior, even here in the Monterey Bay area, is and should be under the microscope. Not only are officers responsible for their own behavior, but they are impacted by the deeds and misdeeds of the police nationwide. It may not be fair, but that's part of the job they took on when they were sworn in. After all, they're the ones with the guns.
Based on what happened in Ferguson, and what has happened in racially-tinged cases throughout the country, we've now handed the police another job   to demonstrate that they can enforce the law in an even-handed manner. We're asking them to be better than the rest of society.
Continuing efforts to further diversify the workforce is a start. Absolute openness after any sort of questionable event is of unquestioned necessity. Community outreach is already a strategy in place at most local departments, but too much of it is still not enough.
Some say that the police are the problem. That may or may not be true. But we're convinced that better law enforcement is the solution.
