I'm a proud vegan and a member of several vegan Facebook groups. I enjoy reading posts, but often there is bitching and belittling when people make small mistakes about food additives being vegan or not sharing the exact same ethics as others. We are all trying to fight the same fight. Why the pettiness? -Educate each other and don't put people down.
Alvie it's unsocial: I don't care what anyone says, social media has destroyed the social essence of life.
StrugglingSocialist best friend: A dog never cheated on me, a dog never screened my calls, a dog never slags me off behind my back and a dog is always there to comfort me no matter what. So yeah, I would choose a dog over a -human any day of the week. 
BurntGuy evidence counts: Please, people, remember that your -beliefs and opinions are not who you are as a person - so change them in the face of better -evidence (I'm looking at you, pro-"life"-ers and climate change deniers).
Changeling my choice: I have schizophrenia and I am forced by the Government to take antipsychotic medication every day for the rest of my life. The side effects of the medication are torture for me, so I wish the Government would offer me an alternative. My suggestion is for the Government to build an enclosed place for people in my situation to live, with high fences and security at the gate. People with schizophrenia could then choose to live there without having to take medication.
Pleaseletmechoose perfect journey: I can't believe my luck. My Monday 7.50am train was on time, I got a seat and the young guy next to me was reading a book and had no earphones on. What a pleasant and promising start to the week.
Ilaria justice call: Let's have justice for 
 the American teenager shot and killed by a police officer on Saturday. It's disgusting that this seems to be becoming more and more common and how little the world cares.
ACAB so polite: I sat next to two polite and respectful Muslim women on the train while in the background I heard a young Aussie girl talking loudly and swearing on the phone. I know who I'd rather have in this -country.
Mitch astrology awe: Has it -occurred to anyone that the -horoscopes are sometimes so accurate that it's actually kind of freaky? Mine has been spot-on.
Whiterabbit funny guys: I've noticed that a lot of gay guys are funny. I'm wondering if this too is genetic or just something in their make-up?
HeidiHo worth it: Matthew Norman (For what it's worth, mX, Mon), agree about gamer developers' fixation with piracy hurting most the people who actually buy their games legally. I hope all -developers realise your point sooner rather than later. Fact is, most gamers will be more than happy to support a game and its developers when they believe it's worth it.
Honestgamer not free: Ahoy there, Free Speaker (mX, Mon). Contrary to popular thought, Australia doesn't have free speech. We -actually have an implied right to political communication.
Politicallycorrect megan magic: Stutterers- Unite (mX, July 31), you should watch the video of a talk Megan Washington gave to the TEDx conference in Sydney earlier this year. Go to www.TED.com.It's well worth the time.
Commuterguy no tragedy: Darcy (mX, Mon), Bieber dying from a king hit is not a worse scenario. Everybody is thinking it, I'm just saying it.
Non-Belieber clair thinking: To Whoodoo (mX, Mon), well you must be more weird than me. I am an -engineering graduate who reads tarot cards and has experimented with induced OBEs and clairvoyance in the past.
Kris proof counts: Unfaithful (mX, Mon), the burden of proof lies on the believer. We don't need faith if we have solid -evidence-based, peer reviewed facts.
SY no faith: Dear Unfaithful, you don't seem to understand -atheism at all. It is quite literally a lack of faith, especially the blind kind.
EducateYourself no game: Scientific Facts (mX, Mon), I didn't realise science and religion was a game. Cut this out, it's immature.
BlamePeople logic rules: Religion has been the bane of society for millennia. Horrendous atrocities have been perpetrated in the name of religion for countless generations and the state of the world today is a direct cause of this insidious malady. Atheism and logic is the only way to go.
Nonbeliever Jesus theory: Mythreader (mX, Thu), to my knowledge the resurrection of Asar is who you were talking about. Jmmanuel was really crucified but survived and then went to India. I recommend reading the Talmud of Jmmanuel.
Gaz long days: Tellme (mX, Mon), I am a full-time uni student doing 32 hours a week of placement on my feet and I work three jobs. Last week I worked 17 hours in one day. Don't assume concession card holders are lazy students who sit all day.
Notlazy full story: Tellme, concession implies student, which generally does mean working long days to pay bills on the few days a week not at uni. Don't judge if you don't know the story.
NotImpressed don't judge: Broke (mX, Thu), if you aren't eligible then you are most likely better off financially than a lot of other uni students. You don't know their circumstances so you can't judge.
BetterOff passionate fans: Footballfan (mX, Thu), AFL might not be known worldwide but we are passionate supporters who go to games. AFL has the third biggest average crowd attendance of any sport in the world behind NFL in the US and German soccer.
Fact sad view: Discreetly Happy (mX, August 7), I was not judging anyone for not smiling on public transport. I was writing in -response to a reader who asked why people appeared so miserable. Secondly, so many people not only don't smile, they visibly seem unhappy, tired, stressed out. And lastly, I find it depressing we live in a place where most people refrain from smiling, laughing, talking or interacting in any positive way with their -fellow commuters. Unfortunately this is common in big cities.
Steve STINK FEST: I'm tired of people smoking on the platforms thinking they are doing other commuters a favour by having the last puff before they walk in the train, But they don't seem to realise they smell horrible. Haven't people heard of just not smoking or maybe a breath mint?
Fresh Air SMS 'VENT' and your message and name to 1999 0010. Or download the free mX app and submit directly. Texts cost 55c per 160 characters inc. GST. SMS support: 1300 737 728.
mX POLL What would make you feel safer on the train?
More guards/transit officers on trains 68% More security on platforms 17% More CCTV 12% More emergency phones 3%Download the app to take part in our polls
