 Two Portadown men were ordered to pay 1,000 compensation last Friday at Craigavon Magistrates Court to a man they assaulted.
They were Anthony Terence Brown (52), Park Road, Portadown, and Michael George Brown (55), Park Road, Portadown. 
Both admitted disorderly behaviour and assault occasioning actual bodily harm on August 25 last year.
Anthony Terence Brown was sentenced to four months in prison, suspended for two years, and ordered to pay 500 compensation to the injured party.
Michael George Brown was sentenced to three months in custody, suspended for two years, and also ordered to pay 500 compensation.
The court heard that a number of men got off a bus after returning from a parade in Belfast and went into Woodhouse Street.
As they passed McKeever's bar there was verbal exchange and people came running from the bar. The injured party was assaulted and received cuts to his legs and arms.
CCTV showed the victim standing with an arms outstretched come on' gesture to people at the bar before running up the road while he was chased by the group.
A prosecutor said that there was nothing specific about what the defendants did but they were involved in the totality of what happened.
A barrister for the defendant said it was a disgraceful incident which neither man should have been involved with. 
 had a clear record while Anthony Brown had a record of some vintage with his last matter over a decade ago.
He explained that they had been out celebrating 
 birthday and when words were exchanged with the passing group their better judgement was impaired by the consumption of alcohol.
The lawyer said there was provocation with one of the group dropping his trousers in front of the men at the bar.
He told the court the defendants were remorseful at what had happened. The reason they were prosecuted was that they sought out police at the scene to complain about the group who had passed them and gave police their names, addresses and contact details.
Pre-sentence reports showed that they had shown remorse and there was a lack of pre-meditation.
District Judge, Mr Mervyn Bates, said there was a degree of mutual provocation and he did not consider the motive was sectarian in the general scenario. 
