Tragedy
Police bullet kills unarmed black teen
FERGUSON, Mo. * An unarmed black teenager was shot and killed by police in suburban St. Louis after an altercation that involved two people and an officer, authorities said Sunday while hundreds of protesters demanded justice outside. Police have not disclosed the name of the man who was killed, but family members identified him as 18-year-old 
 St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar said at a news conference that an officer encountered two people on the street near an apartment complex Saturday afternoon in Ferguson, a predominantly black suburb a few kilometres north of downtown St. Louis. 
Election
Early results show win for Turkey's president
ISTANBUL, Turkey * An unofficial vote count showed Turkey's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan won the country's first ever direct presidential election in the first round Sunday, ensuring he will remain at the country's helm for at least another five years. With 93.7 per cent of ballot boxes opened, Erdogan was ahead with 53.05 per cent of the vote, the count by the state-run Anadolu news agency showed. Erdogan's main rival, Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, was shown at 37.81 per cent and the third candidate, Selahattin Demirtas, at 9.14 per cent. "The people showed their will at the polls today," Erdogan said in a brief speech before thousands of supporters in Istanbul Sunday evening, but stopped short of declaring victory. He said he would head to the capital, Ankara, from where he hoped to address his supporters from his party headquarters late Sunday night, once all results were in.
War
Kurds push back militants: officials
BAGHDAD * Kurdish forces retook Sunday two towns from the Sunni militants that have seized large parts of northern Iraq, said a senior Kurdish military official, amid a building international response that has included air drops of aid and airstrikes. Brig. Gen. Shirko Fatih said the Kurdish fighters were able to push the militants of the Islamic State group out of the villages of Makhmour and al-Gweir some 45 kilometres from Irbil, in one of the first victories by the Kurdish forces that until now have been in retreat. The victories by the radical Sunni militants that adhere to an extremist intolerant interpretation of Islam have sent 10,000s of the country's minorities fleeing from their homes in fear in a situation that has grabbed world attention. The United States announced a fourth round of airstrikes Sunday against militant vehicles and mortars firing on Irbil as part of its small-scale series of attacks meant to discourage the Sunni fighters from endangering U.S. personnel near the Kurdish capital.
