Port Vale travel north to take on Doncaster Rovers this afternoon looking to build on their fantastic victory over Hartlepool in the Capital One Cup last Tuesday.
Our fans' panel of CHRIS BENTLEY, from Clayton, ROB MOZELEWSKI, from Cheadle and ANDY McCORMACK, from Burslem, choose their team for Vale's mission at the Keepmoat Stadium   and give their verdict on the outcome.
WHAT'S YOUR TEAM? 
Chris Bentley: I think that Micky Adams needs to keep the back four fairly consistent so they can gel.
In midfield I'd keep Chris Lines and Michael O'Connor in the centre, Chris Birchall on the right after his performance against Hartlepool and Mark Marshall out wide left to hopefully create more chances for the forwards.
So, my team for today is: Johnson, Veseli, Duffy, McGivern, Dickinson; O'Connor, Lines, Marshall, Birchall; Pope, Williamson.
Rob Mozelewski: I'm going to go with Johnson, Yates, Dickinson, Duffy, McGivern, Lines, Brown, Marshall, Dodds, Williamson, Pope.
Andy McCormack: Johnson, Veseli, Duffy, McGivern, Dickinson, Birchall, Lines, O'Connor, Marshall, Williamson, Pope. 
I would go with the same side that beat Hartlepool except for the return of Richard Duffy if fit.
I'm not entirely convinced that Chris Lines and Michael O'Connor can operate together, though, so Micky Adams needs to be pro-active with his substitutes and have 
 and Steven Jennings on standby to bolster the midfield.
Walsall showed that we are still vulnerable to getting overrun in midfield.
WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION?
Chris Bentley: It's always a very hard one to call when you're up against a team that has just been relegated, but Doncaster had an excellent first-day away win at Yeovil so I'd be more than happy with a point from this one.
I'll go 1-1 with Williamson to add to his confidence-boosting hat-trick against Hartlepool.
Rob Mozelewski: I think the match will go our way. 2-0 to Vale.
Andy McCormack: Vale's away form since the historic win at Walsall last November has been poor, so I wait with interest to see if there will be any improvement this weekend.
Although Donny have started well with two wins I can see us earning a point in a 1-1 draw - with a  sideshow of Adams eyeballing Brian Horton on the touchline following a robust challenge from substitute 
.
ANY OTHER BUSINESS?
Chris Bentley: I'm delighted the season is back and I think we've got a good squad with some decent players.
Let's get behind the team as it's still very much early days and it's going to take a few games for the new boys to gel.
I'm feeling very positive though, and I think Adams has brought in some decent players.
On the League Cup second-round draw, I think Cardiff should be a decent game and although it's not perhaps the money-spinning tie we hoped for, we still have a realistic chance of progressing and then who knows.
Rob Mozelewski: For me, the most exciting aspect to the start of this season is the signing of Mark Marshall.
He's quick, powerful and has more end product than Jennison Myrie-Williams.
He also extends our fine tradition of looking to the Caribbean for talent.
In recent years we've had, in no particular order; Hector Sam, Chris Birchall (both Trinidad and Tobago), Anthony Griffith (Montserrat), Sagi Burton (St Kitts and Nevis), Michael Husbands (St Lucia - yes, really), Craig Rocastle (Grenada) and Marshall's fellow Jamaicans Onandi Lowe and Robbie Earle.
But the one who is fondest in my short memory, is the slightly bulky, stocky frame of Tony Rougier, the winger turned striker that we signed from Hibernian.
I was still at high school when Rougier turned out for the Vale, and even though his stay was relatively short, he made a big impression on me and my mates.
He had an air of the exotic for a start. And his wing play was different to anything that we'd seen before.
He didn't have the guile and trickery of Steve Guppy or Jon McCarthy, explosive pace of Gareth Ainsworth or the frustrating, unfulfilled genius of John Jeffers.
He was more of a blunderbuss who out-muscled defenders, hustling and bustling.
When he was sold to Reading for 325k I was gutted.
He only scored 10 times in 50 odd games, but during a period of decline, he stood out.
He was a character. He had end product. He made things happen when you thought a game was going to fizzle out.
I hope that Marshall can become that kind of talisman for us this year.
Unlike Rougier he's got a Vale team that's on the up, rather than battling relegation. Who knows, he might be exactly what we need to sneak into the play-offs. 
Andy McCormack: Considering we had a  paltry attendance of 2,800 on Tuesday, the queues at the ticket office were ridiculous.
There had been similar problems in the Bolton and WBA friendlies  (1,700 home fans per game) so this was little surprise.
Fans were queuing for half-an-hour or more, many missing the kick-off, luckily there was only a light shower before the game.
It wasn't as if they  turned up five minutes before kick off either.
If the club continue to insist that a cash turnstile cannot be used, then at least have a stockpile of tickets prepared to dish out to save the time-consuming printing operation. A more manageable 10 admission price would help as well.
Oh, and any chance of opening the Railway Stand for the Cardiff game?
We must be the only club in the league that habitually shuts down the best viewing area in the ground.
Is the saving on a couple of turnstile operators and a handful of stewards that crucial?
