AN 18-YEAR-OLD Missouri man - reportedly unarmed - was shot dead by a cop on Saturday, triggering outrage among residents, who gathered at the scene shouting "kill the police." 
 (pictured) was on his way to his grandmother's house in the city of Ferguson, 12 miles north of St. Louis, when he was gunned down at about 2:15 p.m., cops and his relatives said. What prompted the Ferguson Police Department officer to fire wasn't immediately clear.
Multiple witnesses told KMOV TV that Brown was unarmed and tried to put his hands up after the cop fired his first shot. The officer "shot again and once my friend felt that shot, he turned around and put his hands in the air," said witness Dorian Johnson. "He started to get down and the officer still approached with his weapon drawn and fired several more shots."
Cops said they were trying to determine what led to the shooting. "We're still trying to piece together what happened and why," St. Louis County Police spokesman Brian Schellman told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, promising a "lengthy investigation."
The shooting created bedlam in Ferguson. Some 200 irate residents filled the streets, screaming and cursing at cops. A handful of them came face-to-face with police officers, as a police dog paced nearby, barking, reported the Post-Dispatch.
"Please don't shoot me!" they hollered. "Please don't shoot me!"
Louis Head, Brown's stepfather, held a sign that read: "Ferguson police just executed my unarmed son!!!"
Brown was a 2014 graduate of Normandy High School and was scheduled to begin classes at Vatterott College on Monday, relatives said.
Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson told the Post-Dispatch that the officer who shot Brown was placed on paid administrative leave. State Sen. Jamilah Nasheed said she would petition the U.S. Justice Department on Monday to launch a formal investigation.
St. Louis County NAACP President Esther Haywood expressed outrage over the incident, and evoked the death of Eric Garner, the Staten Island man who died on July 17 after an NYPD cop put him in an apparent chokehold. "We are hurt to hear that yet another teenaged boy has been slaughtered by law enforcement, especially in light of the recent death of Eric Garner in New York, who was killed for selling cigarettes," Haywood said.
