RIOTING has erupted after the killing of an unarmed black teenager by a police officer in St Louis, Missouri. Shops were looted, cars attacked and a building set alight as police tried to seal off areas of the city to quell the violence. 
They say 
 18, was shot several times after a struggle in a patrol car on Saturday afternoon in Ferguson, a mainly black suburb.
The riots started late yesterday after thousands of people attended a candlelight vigil for Brown. Some protesters surrounded the Ferguson police headquarters, some holding their hands in the air and chanting: "Don't shoot me." Others stood on police cars and taunted officers in riot gear.
The killing drew criticism from civil rights leaders, who referred to the 2012 shooting of black teenager Trayvon Martin in Florida by a neighbourhood watch organizer who was later acquitted of racially-motivated murder charges.
"We're outraged because yet again a young African-American man has been killed by law enforcement," said community spokesman John Gaskin. A leading campaigner, the Rev Al Sharpton, called the shooting "very disturbing" and said he planned to go to Ferguson to meet Brown's family.
Local police chief Jon Belmar said the shooting occurred after an officer encountered Brown and another man on the street near an apartment block.
Mr Belmar said one man pushed the policeman back into his squad car and a struggle began. At least one shot was fired from the officer's gun inside the vehicle, then the fight spilled out into the street where Mr Brown was shot several times.
Mr Belmar said it was unclear if Brown, who police confirmed was unarmed was the man who fought the officer, and his department was still investigating why the officer opened fire. The FBI may also be called in.
Police said the second man has not been arrested, and it was not known if he had a weapon.
Brown's mother, Lesley McSpadden, said the officer who shot him should be fired and prosecuted, and added: "I would like to see him go to jail with the death penalty."
