  The FBI said it will probe the fatal police shooting of an unarmed black teen just outside St. Louis - as angry residents and cops clashed Monday for a second night of rioting.  
  Feds and St. Louis County police will both be investigating the slaying of 
 18, by a Ferguson, Mo., city cop on Saturday night.  
  "The FBI notified me that they will be opening up an investigation that will run parallel to this investigation," St. Louis County police chief Jon Belmar. 
  A petty sidewalk beef between police, Brown and a pal may have sparked the deadly confrontation and ensuing riots in Ferguson, about 12 miles northwest of St. Louis. 
  Furious that an unarmed man had been shot to death in their community, demonstrators protested Brown's killing at a candlelight vigil on Sunday night. It turned ugly when looters broke into several shops and torched a convenience store.  
  Tensions erupted in the St. Louis suburb again on Monday evening, when riot police fired tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse a large crowd of protestors. At least five people were arrested, according to St. Louis County police.  
  Dorian Johnson told WALB-TV that the fatal trouble Saturday began after he and Brown had left a convenience store and were strolling in the street and an officer told them to get on the sidewalk. 
  When they kept walking in the street, the officer rolled up to the pair, got out of the police car and drew his gun, Johnson said. 
  The officer fired, Johnson said, and they took off running. 
  "He shot again, and once my friend felt that shot, he turned around and put his hands in the air, and he started to get down," Johnson said. "But the officer still approached with his weapon drawn and fired several more shots. 
  "We wasn't causing harm to nobody," Johnson added. "We had no weapons on us at all." 
  Cops have told a different story, saying one of the men pushed the officer back into his squad car before the struggle began.  
  Ferguson Police Chief Tom Jackson said a group that had gathered at a convenience store that had been torched on Sunday night started lobbing rocks at police on Monday evening. Cops also heard gunfire coming from the crowd and responded with tear gas.  
  The unrest first exploded after a Sunday night vigil to demonstrate against Brown's death, when looters hit a Walmart, Walgreens and Foot Locker, according to Belmar. Police arrested 32 suspected rioters. 
  Shots were fired at cops and a police helicopter, officials said, but no one was hit. 
  "It is a miracle, however, that no one actually got shot [Sunday] night," Belmar said. "I was expecting the worst." 
  The Rev. Al Sharpton will fly to Missouri and meet with Brown's family on Tuesday.  
  With Post Wires 
