Phillip Pannell. Lawrence Meyers. Amadou Diallo. Malik Williams.  Sean Bell. Eric Garner. And now, 
  
    All were black males, some from North Jersey, who died at the hands  of law enforcement officers.  
  Civil rights advocates say such cases, from Pannell, a Teaneck teen  who was shot in 1990 while being chased by a white police officer,  to Brown, shot on Saturday by a police officer in Ferguson, Mo.,  are examples of law enforcement's tendency to be overly aggressive  with black males.  
    Here is a look at some of the best-known cases of the past quarter  century:  
    * Phillip Pannell was shot to death by a white Teaneck police  officer 24 years ago.   
    The officer, Gary Spath, contended that Pannell, 16, had bolted  from an earlier stop-and-frisk in which his partner, Officer Wayne  Blanco, said he had felt a gun. Spath chased the fleeing Pannell  and said after the shooting that he thought Pannell, who had  stopped, was turning around and reaching for a gun.  
    Spath fired two shots, the second hitting Pannell in the back and  killing him. Police said a gun was found in Pannell's jacket  pocket.  
    The shooting sparked demonstrations led by the Rev. Al Sharpton,  with hundreds of people bused from Brooklyn to add their voices to  those of people in Teaneck.  
    The protest ended with a night of unrest, in which cars - including  police cruisers - were overturned, windows broken and businesses  vandalized along Teaneck Road.  
    Spath, who was suspended with pay, was the subject of a grand jury  investigation which did not indict him, and a second inquiry, which  resulted in an indictment on manslaughter charges. He retired on  disability at the age of 31 a few months later and was acquitted of  manslaughter after a tense trial almost two years after the  shooting.  
    * Amadou Diallo, an immigrant from Guinea, was hit with 19 bullets  fired by four New York City police officers before dawn on Feb. 4,  1999.  
    The officers thought Diallo fit the description of a man wanted for  a series of rapes. They said they identified themselves as they  approached Diallo. When Diallo reached into a pocket to pull out  his wallet, they opened fire. The officers said they feared he was  reaching for a gun. Diallo was unarmed.  
    A grand jury indicted them on charges of second-degree murder and  reckless endangerment. A jury acquitted them. Diallo's family sued  the city and settled for $3 million.  
    * Malik Williams, 19, was fatally shot by Garfield police on Dec.  1, 2011. Police said he advanced on officers with a claw hammer and  handsaw after fleeing the station.  
    Williams had turned himself in on an aggravated-assault warrant but  ran out as he was being processed. He was cornered in a garage and  was holding a hammer and saw when he was shot by a Garfield officer  and a Bergen County officer, whom authorities said repeatedly  ordered him to drop the tools.  
    A grand jury declined to indict the officers.  
    * Manuel Loggins Jr. was a 31-year-old Marine sergeant and a father  of three when he was killed by an Orange County, Calif., sheriff's  deputy on Feb. 7, 2012. The deputy approached Loggins after Loggins  crashed through a gate of San Clemente High School about 4:40 a.m.,  with two of his daughters inside his SUV.  
    According to the sheriff's department account, Loggins left the  vehicle, then returned to it, ignored orders to show his hands and  displayed a "mean" expression. The sheriff's deputy, who said he  feared for the girls' safety, fired three shots through the window.  He was not charged.  
    Loggins' family sued and settled for $4.4 million last spring.  
    * Ronald Madison was one of two victims of a New Orleans police  shooting in the days after Hurricane Katrina. Madison, 40, was  mentally disabled. He was unarmed when he was shot in the back on  Sept. 4, 2005. Madison and a 17-year-old named James Brissette were  killed. Four other people, all related, were wounded.  
    Prosecutors said the group was searching for food and supplies in  the wake of the hurricane. Authorities said a group of police  opened fire on the unarmed individuals and tried to cover up what  they had done by claiming they had been shot at.  
    Five New Orleans police officers pleaded guilty to obstructing  justice in connection with the cover-up. Another five were  convicted of civil rights violations and sentenced in 2012 to terms  ranging from six to 65 years.  
    * Sean Bell was due to be married the morning after his fatal  encounter with New York City police officers on Nov. 25, 2006.  Bell, 23, was behind the wheel of a car outside a Queens strip club  where his bachelor party had been held. Police, including  plainclothes officers who had been in the club, said they  approached Bell because of concerns that someone in his party had a  gun.  
    Officers opened fire, saying Bell had rammed his car into one of  them. They said they had identified themselves as officers and  showed their badges, an account disputed by some witnesses in a  subsequent trial. Bell was shot in the neck and torso and died. Two  friends in his car were shot but survived.  
    Three police officers were indicted on charges ranging from  manslaughter to reckless endangerment. They were acquitted in 2008,  but all were fired or forced to resign after the Police Department  concluded they had acted improperly. A lawsuit filed by the  victims' families was settled for $7 million.  
    * Lawrence Meyers, a 16-year-old from Paterson, was fatally shot in  February 1995 by Ronald Cohen, a 25-year-old white rookie Paterson  cop, during a buy-and-bust drug operation on Ellison Street.  
    Cohen, who was working undercover, had pinned Meyers against a  fence and had his gun drawn as he was doing a pat-down search. The  gun went off, and a bullet struck Meyers in the head, killing him.  
    The shooting led to three days of demonstrations, one of which was  accompanied by looting downtown near City Hall. Months later, Cohen  was cleared of any wrongdoing by a grand jury and reinstated. But  under community pressure, he was given a desk job and soon resigned  from the department.  
    * Eric Garner, 43, died on July 17, after a police officer in  Staten Island placed him in an illegal chokehold during an  encounter on the sidewalk, where police said Garner was selling  illegal cigarettes. A bystander shot video showing Garner's final  moments, and it quickly fueled major protests and demands that the  officers involved face criminal charges.  
    The city's medical examiner ruled Garner's death a homicide because  of the compression of his neck and chest. Two officers face an  internal investigation in connection with Garner's death. The one  who applied the chokehold was put on modified duty, meaning he was  stripped of his gun and badge.  
    Neither has been charged, and police say Garner's poor health and  his refusal to cooperate with officers contributed to his death.  
    Staff Writers Jim Norman and Richard Cowen contributed to this  article, which contains material from the Los Angeles Times.
