Three days of unrest have convulsed Ferguson, Mo., after 
 18, an unarmed black teenager, was shot and killed by the police on Saturday. A peaceful vigil on Sunday was followed by rioting and looting that led to 32 arrests overnight. On Monday, scenes of unrest continued. 
Protesters gathered on West Florissant Avenue, a commercial strip where much of the looting had occurred on Sunday night. A New York Times reporter, Julie Bosman, was on the scene. Instead of a notebook, she used Twitter to describe what she was seeing.
Chaotic scene in #ferguson pic.twitter.com/PFmLpdGBv1 -- Julie Bosman (@juliebosman) August 12, 2014
Antonio French, a St. Louis alderman who participated in the protests, also used social media to describe what was happening.
St. Louis City Police in St. Louis County blocking W. Florissant at Lucas & Hunt preventing cars from driving to #Ferguson -- Antonio French (@AntonioFrench) August 12, 2014
There were several hundred people, Ms. Bosman wrote. Traffic was backed up, and the police had arrived and formed a line, clad in riot gear. The protesters started yelling at the police, and the police drove them back into the surrounding residential neighborhood.
Police advancing closer to crowd, which is shouting and honking horns. "We live here, you don't!" one woman shouted. -- Julie Bosman (@juliebosman) August 12, 2014
The police were trying to prevent further looting, Ms. Bosman said.
Police telling crowd to "disperse immediately and return to your homes." pic.twitter.com/3s3AZ8RRCU -- Julie Bosman (@juliebosman) August 12, 2014
The scene was chaotic. People were jumping on cars, though that was limited.
A small number of people jumped on my car and threw a blood-like substance on the hood; then realized I wasn't police and apologized. -- Julie Bosman (@juliebosman) August 12, 2014
I'm sure Avis will understand. #protests #Ferguson pic.twitter.com/0uwSWqkhNb -- Julie Bosman (@juliebosman) August 12, 2014
Then the police started to set off tear gas. Ms. Bosman said she could see the gas billowing. People were running away as it stung their eyes and throats.
Scene in #Ferguson momentarily quieter. Residents covering their mouths with scarves and t-shirts to avoid gas. -- Julie Bosman (@juliebosman) August 12, 2014
The police then started shooting rubber bullets at people, including reporters and photographers.
Police shooting rubber bullets at crowd, including reporters and photographers. #Ferguson -- Julie Bosman (@juliebosman) August 12, 2014
The standoff went on for several hours. The police were asking the crowd to disperse and go home, but most of the protesters did not live in the area, and the police were blocking their way out.
ICYMI: This is what happened tonight in #Ferguson: VIDEO: http://t.co/lkJypKNZxA #goodnight #peace -- Antonio French (@AntonioFrench) August 12, 2014
By 10 p.m., the crowds had thinned and people started to go home.
Nightfall in #Ferguson. Many people in crowd returning to their homes. -- Julie Bosman (@juliebosman) August 12, 2014
