BURTON boss Gary Rowett hailed his League Two team after Stuart Beavon's 52nd-minute winner knocked out Championship side Wigan 2-1. The on-loan Preston striker converted Lucas Akins' cross after substitute Dominic Knowles' 45th-minute strike cancelled out Marc-Antoine Fortune's opener. 
"That is as well as any team of mine has ever played - ever," said Rowett.
Opposite number Uwe Rosler was furious at the manner of the defeat.
"The second half was unacceptable," he said. "We needed more than just three or four players to have a normal day." Ben Williamson scored a 10-minute hat-trick as Port Vale thumped Hartlepool 6-2. Williamson scored in the eighth, 14th and 18th minutes before being taken off in the 73rd minute.
Hartlepool reduced the deficit through Jonathan Franks and a Neil Austin penalty, but Vale stretched their lead with a 
 strike and two from Tom Pope.
Dave Hockaday was made to sweat for a first win as Leeds manager as his side scraped a 2-1 victory over League Two Accrington. Souleymane Doukara scored two neat goals to put the hosts in a commanding position at half-time, but their standards slipped after the break.
James Beattie's Accrington gave themselves hope when James Gray pulled a goal back with six minutes left before Leeds had Gaetano Berardi sent off for a high tackle on Rob Atkinson.
Hockaday said: "The first half showed little bits of what we're capable of, but the second half was a reality check."
Nottingham Forest assistant manager Steve Wigley defended midfielder Michael Mancienne after his dismissal nearly sparked a Tranmere upset.
Mancienne was booked in the first half for blocking a quickly taken free-kick and then picked up a second yellow for a foul on Jason Koumas.
"I was really disappointed with it," said Wigley.
"The first one was a terrible decision as he couldn't really get out of the way. I have no complaints about the second one as his foot was up."
Forest led through Michail Antonio's 12th-minute header but were then forced to hang on with 10 men.
League Two Tranmere piled on the pressure and deserved to take the game to extra-time but Danny Woodards headed against the bar.
Boss Rob Edwards said: "The game changed with the sending-off. His studs were high for the second one, so I think the referee was correct."
