Hip-hop headliners Wiz Khalifa and Jeezy performed Tuesday night on the "Under the Influence of Music" tour at Verizon Wireless Amphitheater, but it was thoughts of 
 that stole the spotlight.
The teenager, shot Saturday afternoon by a Ferguson police officer, factored into the sets by both Pittsburgh native Khalifa and Atlanta native Jeezy.
Jeezy, whose black T-shirt read "R.I.P. 
," addressed the tragedy before dedicating "Soul Survivor" to the 18-year-old. He said he had a couple of things on his mind, and he knew the crowd, which numbered more than 9,000, did as well. 
"I wanna talk to you about dreams," Jeezy said. "If your dreams don't scare you, you aren't dreaming big enough. Do I got any big dreamers in the house? I wanna dedicate this to a big dreamer. His dreams were taken away from him. We (are going to) dream for 
 tonight."
Khalifa wore a white T-shirt with the words "Don't Shoot" across the front and "R.I.P. 
" on the back. He said "Under the Influence of Music" was more than just a tour; it was an experience meant to bring out everyone's peace and love.
Khalifa's set began with the impossibly lanky rapper rising from beneath the stage for "Work Hard, Play Hard."
Backed by a small but noisy band, DJ and arena-size production, Khalifa gave a rock-star performance that cemented his status as one of the best of the rising young rappers. Songs such as "Black and Yellow," "Young, Wild and Free," "Raw," "Like Jimmy," "No Limit" and "Medicated" showcased a performer who could be as laid-back as he was explosive.
Sometimes Khalifa stood perfectly still at the microphone on "Stayin Out All Night," from his new album "Blacc Hollywood," when he rose high above the stage on a podium. Other times he flailed about wildly. He crowd-surfed on "We Dem Boyz," to the delight of fans.
In a brief interlude, he paid homage to Snoop Dogg; the two are equally open about their use of marijuana. He may or may not have been smoking the substance onstage by that point in the show.
"Damn It Feels Good to Be a Taylor" and "Taylor Gang" brought out members of his Taylor Gang Records, including rapper Ty Dolla $ign, a support act on the bill, to party with him.
Jeezy, a St. Louis favorite, was accompanied by triumphant horn-filled music for his brand of street rap including "Put On," "SupaFreak," "Trap Star (She Likes It)," "Go Crazy" and "I Luv It." He performed with a band and DJ as well, and brought out support act Rich Homie Quan to perform a YG song that features both of them.
Also supporting Tuesday night, in addition to Quan and $ign, were IAMSU/Sage and Mack Wilds. DJ Drama spun during breaks in the fast-moving show.
Prior to the concert, there had been some chatter over whether the rap concert should have been canceled or postponed for fear of a disturbance. The concert, on and off stage, went smoothly.
