 HARTLEPOOL United suffered a humiliating exit from the Capital One Cup tonight - losing 6-2 away to Port Vale.
An 18-minute hat-trick from Ben Williamson in the first half set the home side on their way before further goals from 
 and two from Tom Pope completed the rout.
All of the goals were avoidable and the scoreline and defensive display will be a major cause for concern for Colin Cooper.
Going into the cup match, Colin Cooper had named an attacking line-up for the match at Vale Park. 
Michael Woods and Ryan Brobbel made their full debuts for Pools, while Jonathan Franks had also been drafted into the side following an impressive pre-season.
Dropping down to the bench was Marlon Harewood and Jack Compton while Stuart Parnaby missed out altogether after picking up a slight knock to his foot at the weekend.
On-loan goalkeeper Joel Dixon was not allowed to play in tonight's fixture by parent club Sunderland. Young keeper Jonathan Barber took his place on the bench to deputise for Andy Rafferty who again mises out with injury.
Pools had started the match brightly with some good interchanges of play between Brobbel and James and also Woods, playing on the left-hand side of the midfield three.
But it was the home side that took the lead.
Ryan McGivern was given too much time and space to shoot from distance, the shot seemed to swerve and Flinders could only splill the ball.
Ben WILLIAMSON was on hand to poke the ball home in the 8th minute.
Two minutes later though and Cooper's side were level.
FRANKS picked the ball up 25-yards out and he struck a low shot to Sam Johnson's right and into the corner of the net.
The barely had time to settle before WILLIAMSON got his second of the game in the 15th minute.
Vale midfielder Mark Marshall was given too much time to jink his way into the box and feed the ball to Williamson who poked the ball through the legs of Flinders at the keeper's near post.
Pools were shell-shocked.
It got worse just three minutes later with WILLIAMSON completing his hat-trick.
The goal came after a routine cross in to the Pools penalty area by Chris Birchall wasn't dealt with and Williamson managed to get in between Michael Duckworth and Sam Collins to loop a header over Flinders.
So after less than 20 minutes, Pools were 3-1 down and all three goals were avoidable.
There were further chances for Marshall and Williamson as Micky Adams' side looked to steamroll Pools into submission before the break.
Marshall, in particular, was being given far too much space 25-yards out from goal and being invited to run at the Pools back four.
Woods then floated a lovely chip towards the hardworking James but he lashed his short over the bar after 36 minutes.
Brobbel, who had switched to the left flank, then curled a cross towards the head of Franks but he couldn't get enough on it as it crept wide.
Vale's Michael O'Connor then chanced his arm from 25-yards out. His curling free-kick was heading to the top corner before Flinders managed to get two hands on it and turn it away for a corner.
Sloppy defending almost cost Pools a fourth, but Tom Pope's shot from inside the penalty area hit the post and was eventually cleared by the Pools defence.
Pools pushed further forward as the clock ticked towards the half-time whistle but the Valiants were comfortable with their 3-1 lead.
HALF-TIME: Port Vale: 3 Pools: 1 
Scott Flinders had to be alert as Chris Birchall chanced his arm with a volley from the edge of the area, Port Vale starting the half strongly.
, a summer transfer target of Cooper, came on for Vale at the break for O'Connor, slotting into central midfield.
He screwed a shot wide of the left-hand post, his effort never really troubling Flinders.
Pools' first real chance of the half came after 55 minutes.
Franks did well before crossing towards the six-yard line, Brobbel was unable to take advantage of the cross but the clearance dropped to Austin who fired in a half-volley from 20+ yards, well stopped by Johnson.
Chris Robertson then hauled down Collins inside the penalty area with 58 minutes on the clock.
Neil AUSTIN stepped up to send Johnson the wrong way and make it 3-2.
Woods went off with Marlon Harewood coming on before play re-started. The switch saw Franks pushed wide left, Brobbel wide right and Harewood and James through the middle.
Less than three minutes later and Pools shot themselves in the foot again.
The cross from the left flank wasn't dealt with and Hartlepool-born BROWN rose highest to head the ball in from the six-yard box.
A crushing blow again for the away side and another avoidable goal.
James curled a shot wide of the post after good build up play from Walker and sub Harewood.
Johnson was then called on to make a smart save with his feet in the 68th minute, to deny Brobbel who broke into the penalty box.
Hat-trick hero Williamson was subbed with 73 minutes on the clock, Louis Dodds coming on.
And it was Dodds' shot a minute later that saw Flinders diving to his left to make a smart save but POPE was following in and tapped the ball into the net to make it 5-2 to Vale.
It could have been far worse if it wasn't for two smart saves from Flinders.
First from Dodds who did well to find room in the box but his shot was well blocked, then Brown again chanced his arm inside the area but Flinders was there to save.
In the 85th minute, it did get worse.
Marshall with the cross to the unchallenged POPE at the back post, who glanced a header into the corner of the net past giving the Pools keeper no chance.
6-2 to Vale.
Flinders then made a fantastic save, with his outstretched right foot to deny Brown from making it 7 after the midfielder had burst forward again into the penalty area.
An awful miss from six-yards out from Harewood summed up the night.
The referee blew his whistle after two minutes of added on time to end a thoroughly miserable night for Pools.
FINAL SCORE: Port Vale 6 Pools 2
Pools (4-3-3): Flinders, Austin, Bates (C), Collins, Duckworth, Walker, Miller, Woods (Harewood, 59), Brobbel, Franks, James.
Subs: Barber, Holden, Compton, Hawkins, Richards, Smith.
Goal: Franks (10) Austin (58)
Port Vale (4-4-2): Johnson, Veseli, Birchall (Jennings, 65), Dickinson, McGivern, Marshall, Williamson (Dodds, 73), Robertson, Lines, Pope, O'Connor.
Subs: Neal, Duffy, Brown, Yates, Lloyd.
Goals: Williamson (8, 15, 18) Brown (61), Pope (74, 85)
Referee: Graham Scott (Oxfordshire)
Attendance: 2,824 (Pools 79)
Vale Park, Port Vale 
