Kommersant
1. Dmitriy Butrin article headlined "Fresh estimates growing in Crimea" says that the federal targeted-development programme aimed at developing Crimea envisages the construction of a bridge over the Kerch Strait, the reconstruction of utilities facilities and water supply system as well as the creation of communications networks in 2014-17; pp 1, 3 (1,068 words).
2. Oleg Trutnev article headlined "Rare beer from across Dnieper anymore" says that the Russian consumer rights watchdog, Rospotrebnadzor, has banned alcohol supplies from three Ukrainian companies; pp 1, 10 (702 words).
3. Valeriya Kozlova article headlined "Flats with arrears" says that mortgage arrears keep growing amid economic stagnation and sanctions; pp 1, 8 (850 words). 
4. Vsevolod Inyutin et al. report headlined "Convoy tired" says that the Russian humanitarian aid convoy for Ukraine's southeast is waiting for Kiev and Moscow to agree on a new route as Kiev has opposed its passage via Kharkiv Region; pp 1, 6 (747 words).
5. Viktor Khamrayev article headlined "Numbers drawn for single voting day" says that the Russian Central Electoral Commission has summed up the results of candidates' registration for the autumn regional elections and has stated that the elections will be quite competitive. Experts disagree with the forecast; p 2 (903 words).
6. Maksim Ivanov and Timur Samedov article headlined "Parties helping president with his candidates" says that not only One Russia but other parliamentary parties as well are going to support current heads of Kabarda-Balkaria, Crimea and Sevastopol at the indirect governor elections; p 2 (513 words).
7. Aleksandr Chernykh and Aleksandr Voronov article headlined "Billions to be allocated for Crimean university" says that Prime Minister Dmitriy Medvedev has ordered to set up the Crimean Federal University and allocate for it over R32bn by 2020; p 3 (603 words).
8. Sergey Nikolayev article headlined "Murmansk speaker isolated from EU" says that a Murmansk court has arrested for two months chairman of the Murmansk regional duma Vasiliy Shambir suspected of loan fraud. Having signed a pledge not to leave the town Shambir tried to leave for Sweden; p 4 (426 words).
9. Grigoriy Tumanov article headlined "They advise to grant residence permits to refugees" says that the presidential human rights council has drafted proposals to help Ukrainian refugees: the issue of work and residence permits and financial support to families housing refugees are on the list; p 5 (562 words).
10. Yanina Sokolovskaya and Pavel Korobov article headlined "Ukrainian church distances itself from politics" says that Metropolitan Onufriy has been elected the primate of Ukraine's Orthodox Church; p 5 (667 words).
11. Yelena Chernenko article headlined "They taking time to write report on Boeing" says that preliminary results of the international probe into the Malaysian airliner crash in Donetsk will be published in early September; p 6 (537 words).
12. Sergey Strokan article headlined "Bombs, food, water being dropped on Iraq's north" says that the USA and its allies are stepping up the operation in Iraq aiming to stop the advance of radical Islamists and avert a humanitarian catastrophe; p 6 (528 words).
13. Anna Zibrova and Anastasiya Dulenkova article headlined "Small fry to cross border" says that Russian officials will decide by the end on the week what foodstuffs will be allowed to be imported to Russia. The preliminary list includes potato seeds, food supplements and juvenile fish; p 7 (700 words). 
Nezavisimaya Gazeta
1. Yekaterina Trifonova and Aleksandra Samarina article headlined "Elections with convictions" says that candidates running in the autumn regional elections are to begin campaigning in mass media outlets today. Over 111,000 candidates from 63 parties have been registered, the Central Electoral Commission reported yesterday, adding that some 330 candidates tried to hide their record of convictions; pp 1, 3 (945 words).
2. Aleksey Gorbachev article headlined "Putin's approval rating setting records" says that polls carried out by the Russian Public Opinion Research Centre (VTsIOM) show that 82 per cent of Russians would vote for Putin at the presidential election and 63 per cent of the polled approve the president's actions regarding Ukraine; pp 1, 3 (515 words).
3. Olga Solovyeva article headlined "Housing prices to drop" says that real estate prices are expected to drop amid stagnation and decrease in people's incomes; pp 1, 6 (842 words).
4. Alina Terekhova article headlined "Khabarovsk, Krasnodar with more mobile gadgets than Moscow" says that the share of mobile internet traffic in Krasnodar and Khabarovsk territories has beaten that of Moscow and St Petersburg and is basically the same as that in the USA and Europe; pp 1, 6 (715 words).
5. Tatyana Ivzhenko article headlined "Ukraine ready to accept aid only from Red Cross" says that Kiev insists that Moscow should render its humanitarian aid via the Red Cross fearing that if it allows the humanitarian aid convoy pass through its territory it may result in full-fledged military actions; pp 1, 7 (1,065 words).
6. Yuriy Paniyev article headlined "New barriers for cocaine" says that the authorities of Bolivia and Peru have decided to use radars, quite possible Russian-made ones, on the border to prevent drug trafficking; pp 1, 8 (773 words).
7. Editorial headlined "Political competition not emerging on order" says that regional heads running for re-election have ousted the strongest opponents from the race which discourages people from coming to polling stations. Meanwhile, low turnout will reduce the legitimacy of regional authorities; p 2 (491 words).
8. Vladislav Maltsev article headlined "Berezovskiy heads Ukraine's church" says that Metropolitan of Chernivtsi and Bukovyna Onufriy, who tends to criticize the military operation in Donbass, has been elected the primate of Ukraine's Orthodox Church; p 2 (473 words).
9. Mikhail Solopov article headlined "President to learn about Crimea's problems" says that One Russia MPs have met residents of Crimea and Sevastopol to discuss their problems and concerns. The MPs are to tell President Putin thereof today; p 2 (598 words).
10. Oleg Nikiforov article headlined "Carte blanche. Risks of national-romantic genre in politics" comments on the confrontation between Russia and the West; p 3 (798 words).
11. Saveliy Vezhin article headlined "Elections to show how one must work" says that the Central Electoral Commission has called the upcoming regional elections the most competitive and record-breaking as regards the number of candidates, voters and political parties; p 3 (687 words).
12. Anastasiya Bashkatova article headlined "Banks not stimulating consumer demand anymore" says that at present Russians tend to spend money on loan payments rather than on purchases and comments on the trend; p 6 (940 words).
13. Anton Khodasevich article headlined "Lukashenka takes up whip again" says that the Belarusian authorities have drafted a bill on corruption; p 7 (758 words).
14. Svetlana Fedorova article headlined "Humanitarian convoy becoming Flying Dutchman" says that Kiev has not allowed the passage of Russia's humanitarian aid convoy through Kharkiv Region; p 7 (674 words).
15. Artur Blinov article headlined "West boosting aid to Iraq" says that Washington is sending some 150 servicemen to Iraq to save the Kurdish minority group blocked in the mountains by radical Islamists; p 8 (692 words).
16. Vladimir Skosyrev article headlined "Delhi accusing Islamabad of terrorism" says that the Indian prime minister has stated that Pakistan is incapable of conducting an ordinary war so it resorts to terrorism; p 8 (620 words).
Vedomosti
1. Galina Starinskaya et al. article headlined "Igor Sechin asks money from future" says that President of Russian state-owned oil giant Rosneft Igor Sechin will ask the government for financial help due to the sanctions imposed against Rosneft by the USA; pp 1, 5 (900 words).
2. Pavel Aptekar op-ed headlined "Following Brezhnev's line" says that the Russian government have been actively copying the Soviet examples of economy management; pp 1, 6 (400 words).
3. Olga Churakova article headlined "Multiparty system with privileges" says that the Central Electoral Commission has called the autumn regional elections record-breaking in terms of the number of candidates. Experts says this fact does not make the life easier for independent and opposition candidates; p 2 (600 words). 
4. Aleksey Nikolskiy and Polina Khimshiashvili article headlined "Humanitarian parking" says that the Russian humanitarian convoy may be not allowed to cross the border with Ukraine and be forced to reload its cargo on Ukrainian vehicles; p 2 (500 words). 
5. Polina Khimshiashvili article headlined "Iraq cannot be divided into halves" says that acting Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has announced he is not going to cede power to PM-designate Haydar al-Abadi; p 3 (300 words).
6. Boris Grozovskiy op-ed headlined "Complex neighbourhood" comments on attitudes of Kazakhstan and Belarus towards Russia's ban on foodstuffs coming from the USA and the EU; p 6 (400 words). 
7. Aleksey Zakharov article titled "Costly affair" comments on the sanctions imposed by the West against Russia, adding that it seems that President Putin takes his decision single-handedly; p 7 (850 words). 
8. Mikhail Serov article headlined "Ukraine plunges Gazprom into crisis" that the Ukrainian conflict has inflicted heavy losses on Russia's Gazprom; p 13 (600 words).
Rossiyskaya Gazeta
1. Yuriy Gavrilov interview with Deputy Defence Minister Anatoliy Antonov headlined "One's own Tomahawk comes first" where he speaks about Washington's accusations that Russia has violated the INF Treaty; pp 1, 6 (1,650 words).
2. Yekaterina Konkova article headlined "Everything but blood" says that a poll by VTsIOM has shown that 63 per cent of the polled think that Moscow's steps are aimed at putting an end to the bloodshed in Ukraine's southeast; p 2 (300 words).
3. Kira Latukhina article headlined "Two days in Crimea" reports on Putin's two-day trip to Crimea and its agenda; p 2 (800 words). 
4. Yuriy Gavrilov article headlined "Two refuellings over Arctic" says that Sukhoi Su-34 bombers have flown over the Arctic Ocean and reached the North Pole; p 2 (500 words). 
5. Mikhail Vignanskiy article headlined "More charges for Saakashvili" says that Georgian prosecutors have brought budget funds embezzlement charges against former President Mikheil Saakashvili; p 7 (300 words).
6. Ivan Petrov article headlined "Bomb shelters just in case" says that two Communist MPs have asked Emergencies Minister Vladimir Puchkov to bring all bomb shelters across Russia into full readiness; p 7 (600 words). 
7. Petr Likhomanov article headlined "Kiev plays trick" says that the Ukrainian authorities are trying hard to stop Russia's humanitarian aid convoy heading for Donbass; p 8 (500 words).
8. Vladislav Vorobyov article headlined "Advice from evil" criticizes US President Barack Obama for his appeal for calm in case of the fatal shooting of unarmed teenager 
 saying that he made the opposite statements talking about the situation in Ukraine; p 8 (300 words). 
Izvestiya
1. Ivan Cheberko article headlined "Russia setting up new system of secret satellite communication" says that Russia intends to create a new personal satellite communications system in the next decade; pp 1-2 (565 words).
2. Svetlana Subbotina interview with Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maksim Topilin headlined "'Funded component of pension should be made voluntary'" where he speaks about changes awaiting the pension system and the decision to freeze funded component of pensions in 2015; pp 1, 3 (1,601 words).
3. Anastasiya Kashevarova article headlined "[election monitoring association ] Golos branch caught on foreign funding" reveals that a regional branch of the election monitoring association Golos is funded by the US organization NDI (National Democratic Institute), which means that it should register as a foreign agent; pp 1-2 (900 words). 
4. Dmitriy Runkevich and Elena Malay article titled "Indebted MPs to be fully banned from travelling" reports on a bill prepared by Communist Party MP Vadim Solovyev, which prohibits indebted State Duma deputies from business trips abroad; pp 1, 4 (700 words). 
5. Lyudmila Podobedova article headlined "Gazprom warns investors of risks" says that the gas monopoly has warned of possible risks of non-monetary settlement of payments with Ukraine and a possible underpayment of 1bn dollars to the budget; p 2 (709 words).
6. Eduard Limonov op-ed headlined "Patriotism poses threat for business" comments on the story of the Russian humanitarian aid convoy sent to Donbass; p 5 (500 words). 
Rossiyskaya Gazeta weekly 
1. Vasiliy Mironov et al. article headlined "Apples on snow" says that the ban on foodstuffs from the EU and the USA will not leave Russian with empty shelves, features experts' comments; p 9 (1,000 words). 
Moskovskiy Komsomolets
1. Igor Karmazin article headlined "Right Sector ready to defeat humanitarian convoy" says that Ukrainian officials keep making contradictory statements regarding the humanitarian aid convoy from Russia; pp 1, 3 (383 words).
2. Leonid Berres article headlined "Steak, I'm going to shoot" analyses possible consequences for Russia of the ban it has imposed on certain foodstuffs coming from the EU and the USA; pp 1, 4 (1,300 words). 
3. Irina Badmayeva et Leonid Berres report headlined "Experts about food prices growth" features experts' comments on the consequences of the food war between Russia and the West; p 2 (1,247 words).
4. Lina Panchenko article headlined "Ossetian killers aim at power" says that law-enforcers have detained members of a criminal group suspected of high-profile contract murders in North Ossetia in 2008-11; p 2 (995 words).
5. Dmitriy Durnev and Marina Tretyakova article headlined "Donetsk residents encouraged to flee" reports on the latest developments in Ukraine's Donetsk; p 3 (200 words).
RBK Daily
1. Svetlana Bocharova and Zhanna Ulyanova article headlined "New Russia's private pensioners" says that retired officials of the highest ranks will be entitled to very high pensions ranging from R60,000 for ministers to R530,000 for president; pp 1-2 (1,100 words).
2. Anna Levinskaya et al. article headlined "Join price responsibility" says that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has ordered retailers to report their supplier's intentions to raise prices to the ministry; pp 1, 8 (950 words).
3. Aleksandr Artmyev et al. article headline "Demanding aid" says that the Red Cross has put forward a number of requirements for the Russian humanitarian aid to be transported to Ukraine's southeast; p 3 (550 words).
4. Mikhail Rubin et al article headlined "Thunder in Crimea" looks ahead at President Vladimir Putin's special address set to take place in Crimea; p 3 (650 words).
Novyye Izvestiya
1. Elya Grigoryeva article headlined "Fight against profiteers" says that the government will have to control prices for foodstuffs banned for import; pp 1, 3 (500 words).
2. Sergey Yezhov article headlined "Beyond competition" says that in many Russian regions the outcome of the autumn gubernatorial elections is clear well ahead; p 1 (1,168 words).
3. Sergey Manukov article headlined "Baghdad affairs" looks at the escalating political crisis in Iraq as Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has refused to leave his post; p 2 (578 words).
4. Konstantin Nikolayev article headlined "Fuss over convoy" says that the fate of Russia's aid convoy is still uncertain; p 2 (562 words).
Komsomolskaya Pravda
1. Aleksandr Kots article headlined "Luhansk cut off from Donetsk" reports on the alignment of forces in eastern Ukraine; p 5 (200 words).
2. Margarita Simonyan op-ed headlined "Why did you switch on 'Russians never give up' mode?" says that Russia is not going to make concessions to the West under the burden of the economic sanctions; p 6 (200 words).
3. Yelena Krivyakina interview with Ukrainian journalist Viktor Zubritskiy headlined "They would have destroyed me in Kiev for telling truth" contains Zubkov's view of Ukrainian media coverage of the hostilities in the country's east; p 8 (1,100 words).
4. Vyacheslav Nikonov article headlined "Putin: country feels difference" reviews Vladimir Putin's 15 years in power; p 9 (1,000 words).
Zavtra 
1. Andrey Fefelov interview with the former prime minister of the self-proclaimed Donetsk people's republic Aleksandr Boroday headlined "Everyone bears his one cross"; pp 1-3 (900 words).
Sources: as listed.Inclusion of items in this list of significant reports from some of the day's main Russian newspapers does not necessarily mean that BBC Monitoring will file further on them
