Four-year-old Aubrey Glover struggled with a broom even taller than her to sweep broken glass in the parking lot of a burned-out convenience store the morning after a riot in Ferguson.
Her mother, Erica Hampton, 31, woke up Aubrey and her brother, Jaden, 10, early Monday in their north St. Louis County home and said they were going to do some cleaning.
"Tearing up buildings and trashing places is not the way to solve anything," she told them. They brought large white trash bags and brooms. 
She called her sister, Dede Patterson, 29, who lives near the street where 18-year-old 
 was shot and killed by a police officer on Saturday. Patterson's young children have slept in the bed with her the past few nights while they heard shouts from the crowds outside.
"I didn't even explain it to them," Patterson said. She wasn't sure what to tell them. "It was just too much." The QuikTrip is where her 9- and 7-year-old walk for snacks. "My kids can't ever come to the store anymore."
"Let's go clean it up," her sister said to her. "Let's go."
Patterson agreed: "What I seen I didn't like. ... It's not going to bring him back."
There is an urgency to do something, anything, to dull the terribleness of the past week. For Hampton, who will complete her master's degree in counseling in December, she wanted her children to see her picking up trash around the destroyed building.
"This what you do for your community," she told them.
There is anger here, not just about the shooting, but toward the vandals who destroyed their businesses in their neighborhood. Toward those who have changed the conversation from trying to find out what happened and seek justice to the criminal reaction of some.
"They are judging us by this," Patterson said, waving her arms around the parking lot.
Shamika Williams, 36, stood in the lot with two of her three daughters. They had seen Brown's body lying in the street in broad daylight when he was killed. Their mother has been at protests, wanting to add her voice to those calling for a change in the way residents are treated by law enforcement.
"I don't want them growing up getting mistreated," Williams said. "I don't want them growing up afraid of the cops. Why can't we protest? Why can't we grieve? Let us get this out of our system."
The stories she's heard and things she's seen make her glad she doesn't have a son. "If I had a boy, I'd be afraid to let him walk the street."
Beyond anger and grief, there is weariness in this area.
How many times have we seen this scene? How long will we march in streets?
"It seems like this has been going on a while," said Kenyana Shaw, 25, of St. Louis. "I can't imagine if this happened to my son."
A small child stood next to a young, black man speaking angrily to an older man in a parking lot. When I told him I wanted to speak to parents in the area, he became even more upset.
He shook his head and started walking away from me but kept talking. He said he knew what it was like to be 
. He said he knew how it felt to be stopped walking down these streets, automatically a suspect.
There was anguish in his voice: "They hate us! Their daddies, their granddaddies hated us, and now they hate us!"
There is fear.
A woman who owns a hair-braiding salon said she told her children to stay inside all day. She only came to check on her store and planned to lock up and stay home. Her older boys had been friends with Brown.
"I'm so scared," she said.
There were still parents pushing baby carriages down the debris-scattered street, past cracked and broken storefront windows, past graffiti that said "kill the police" and "RIP."
Randy Casson, 37, stood in a small group with his 11-year-old son, who partially hid behind his father's legs. His son's eyes were sad. His face somber.
Casson tried to explain to him that the people who rioted had not learned a better way to express themselves. That they were angry and lashing out in the wrong way.
"It seems like the police and the people are about to go to war," Randy Jr. said.
I couldn't help my immediate response.
"Oh, baby, no. That's not going to happen. Why do you think that?"
"I heard there are tanks coming down."
This is not Gaza. This is not Iraq.
This is the heartland of America.
