POLICE fired tear gas and smoke bombs fired tear gas and smoke bombs as they clashed with protesters for as they clashed with protesters for a fourth night amid growing anger at the fourth night amid growing anger at the fatal shooting of an unarmed teenager. fatal shooting of an unarmed teenager. 
Witnesses claim 
 18, had his arms up when he was shot multiple times on Saturday in St Louis, Missouri.
But police maintain there was a struggle and an officer suffered facial injuries.
The death has laid bare the racial and economic divide in the community.
The 21,000 population of the suburb of Ferguson where the shooting happened is two thirds black but only three of its 53 police officers are black.
In the latest wave of protests, two journalists were among several people arrested and both said they were assaulted before they were released.
The White House and Missouri Governor Jay Nixon have called for calm and Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson has said his priority is improving race relations in the town. But on the streets the polite dialogue heard at community forums and news conferences is nowhere to be found. is nowhere to be found.
Instead, officers in riot gear and military fatigues have clashed nightly with protesters, who nightly with protesters, who chanted: "Hands up, don't shoot."
"  At times, officers have trained"  At times, officers have trained weapons on the demonstrators from armoured trucks.
CS GAS WARNING GOFFICERS have been warned that CS spray may not work on drunk people - or dogs.
that CS spray may not work on A 15page report from Police A 15page report from Police sCOTLAND also stated officers should not smoke when carrying the spray.
The document includes sections telling officers that they should not use the spray when in crowded areas to avoid "panic."
Information request, said CS spray The report, obtained " through a Freedom of Information request, said CS spray will not work against people with mental disorders, people who have been drinking or those with a positive mental mind set.
