@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;The UN said on Wednesday the death toll in Ukraine had soared with nearly 1,000 killed in two weeks, as Kiev signalled it could compromise on letting in Russian aid.
After earlier vowing to block a massive Russian convoy headed for its borders, Kiev said it could allow the aid to enter the country after it was inspected by Ukrainian border guards and foreign monitors. 
Ukraine has raised fears the convoy of nearly 300 lorries could be a "Trojan horse" bringing military help to pro-Moscow insurgents who launched a rebellion in the country's east.
Tensions have risen as the convoy rumbled toward the border, with Western capitals fearing it could spark an escalation in a conflict that has already brought ties with Russia to their lowest point since the Cold War.
But as the humanitarian crisis in the east worsened, President Petro Poroshenko's office suggested the much-needed aid could be allowed in to avoid what it called a "large-scale invasion" by Russia.
@HD2 New Briefs head;Tear gas fired at Missouri protesters
@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;Missouri police fired tear gas and smoke bombs late on Wednesday at a crowd of protesters demonstrating against the death of an unarmed black teen by an officer.
CNN and other media reported that police officers in riot gear marched toward the protesters near a burned out gas station where demonstrators have gathered in the town of Ferguson, a St Louis suburb.
Police separately arrested two journalists reporting on the unrest that has roiled Ferguson since aspiring college student 
 18, died on Saturday in a police shooting. His death has triggered rioting and stirred comparisons to the February 2012 fatal shooting of unarmed teenager Trayvon Martin in Florida.
Earlier, police fired several shots at a 19-year-old who pointed a handgun in their direction as they dispersed around 30 people who had gathered near where the rioting had occurred.
@HD2 New Briefs head;Trolls push Robin Williams' daughter off Internet
@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;The daughter of Robin Williams quit social media on Wednesday, upset by Internet trolls and the online pilfering of photos of her Oscar-winning dad following his death by suicide.
"I will be leaving this account for a bit while I heal and decide if I'll be deleting it or not," Zelda Williams, 25, wrote on Instagram beneath a photo of a butterfly.
"In this difficult time, please try to be respectful of the accounts of myself, my family and my friends," she urged.
Monday's death of Williams, one of the finest comedy talents of his generation, at the age of 63 prompted an global outpouring of public grief on social media.
But his grieving daughter expressed frustration at the way family photos she had posted online had been used, and how Internet trolls had attacked her.
"Mining our accounts for photos of dad, or judging me on the number of them is cruel and unnecessary," added the actress.
@HD2 New Briefs head;Brazil's presidential candidate dies in air crash
@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;Brazilian presidential candidate Eduardo Campos died on Wednesday when his campaign jet slammed into houses in Santos city in bad weather, killing all seven people on board and setting buildings alight.
Campos, a 49-year-old socialist who had been running third in opinion polls for the October election, was flying to Sao Paulo to record a TV segment when his Cessna 560XL came down, breaking into pieces and igniting a large fire after impact.
President Dilma Rousseff, who is standing for a second four-year term, declared a state of national mourning and suspended her campaign for three days. [#x20ac]" AFP
