CAIRO - Israel and the Hamas militant group accepted an Egyptian cease-fire proposal Sunday, clearing the way for the resumption of talks on a long-term truce to end a month of heavy fighting in the Gaza Strip that has taken nearly 2,000 lives.
The announcement marked the second time in less than a week that the bitter enemies had agreed to Egyptian mediation. A similar three-day truce last week collapsed in renewed violence over the weekend. 
The truce took effect at 6 p.m. Topeka time, preceded by heavy rocket fire toward Israel. In Cairo, the Egyptian Foreign Ministry said the cease-fire would allow humanitarian aid into battered Gaza neighborhoods and the reopening of indirect talks on a more lasting and comprehensive deal. Hamas is seeking an end to the Israeli-Egyptian blockade against Gaza, while Israel wants Hamas to dismantle its formidable arsenal of rockets and other weapons.  
NATION
L.A. WOMAN SPEAKS ABOUT BEING PUNCHED BY PATROLMAN: Marlene Pinnock said she thought she was going to die as a California Highway Patrol officer straddled her, repeatedly punching her head on the side of a Los Angeles freeway.
During an hour-long interview with The Associated Press on Sunday - her first public comments since the July 1 beating was caught on video by a passing driver - Pinnock spoke haltingly or in a whisper, occasionally putting her hands to her temples and grimacing. Her attorney Caree Harper frequently interrupted her and limited her responses to a reporter's questions.
VANDALISM REPORTED AFTER VIGIL FOR MO. MAN: Some incidents of looting and vandalism have been reported after a vigil held for an unarmed black man shot and killed by a suburban St. Louis police officer.
A few thousand people had crammed the street Sunday night for the vigil for 18-year-old 
 who died a day earlier.
POLICE ARREST WINNER OF DOUGHNUT-EATING CONTEST: A North Carolina man celebrated out-eating some police officers, only to find out that he couldn't outrun them.
The Camden County Sheriff's Office had been looking for 24-year-old Bradley Herbert Hardison of Elizabeth City in connection with two break-ins.
Authorities arrested Hardison on Wednesday, one day after he won the adult division of a doughnut-eating contest at the Elizabeth City Police Department's National Night Out Against Crime. Hardison ate eight doughnuts in two minutes, beating a group that included local police officers and firefighters.
           WORLD         
UKRAINE DEMANDS REBELS IN DONETSK SURRENDER: Fighting raged in the city of Donetsk on Sunday, as government forces continued to close in on the rebel stronghold and pro-Russian insurgents backed away from an unconditional cease-fire offer that they announced just the day before.
With a string of military successes and broad support for its campaign from the West and most of its domestic base, Kiev has taken a hard line against the rebel forces and promised it will only relent when the separatists surrender. Donetsk remained a ghost town on Sunday, with few civilians daring to venture outside as explosions rang out every few minutes and burnt-out buses and buildings smoldered from the night before. 
IRANIAN-BUILT PLANE CRASHES; 39 DEAD: A locally built Iranian passenger plane crashed shortly after takeoff in Tehran on Sunday, killing 39 people and reviving questions about the safety of a cash-strapped aviation sector left hobbled by international sanctions.
President Hassan Rouhani offered his condolences to victims' families and quickly ordered an investigation into the crash. Similar planes operated by Iranian carriers will be grounded until the probe is complete, he directed.
KURDISH FORCES TAKE BACK TOWNS: Kurdish forces retook two towns Sunday from the Sunni militants that have seized large parts of northern Iraq, said a senior Kurdish military official, amid a building international response that has included air drops of aid and airstrikes.
Brig. Gen. Shirko Fatih said the Kurdish fighters were able to push the militants of the Islamic State group out of the villages of Makhmour and al-Gweir some 45 kilometers from Irbil, in one of the first victories by the Kurdish forces that until now have been in retreat. 
FROM WIRE REPORTS
