Former York County Amateur champion Mark Sheftic is tied for the lead after the first round of the Allegheny Health Network 98th Pennsylvania Open at the Country Club of York.
Sheftic fired a bogey-free 4-under-par 66 to tie for the top spot with Haverford's Nelson Hargrove. Sheftic's score included a 3-under-par 32 on the back nine.
Hawley's John Pillar Sr. and Pittsburgh's Kevin Shields tied for third at 67, while Moon Township's Roy Vucinich was alone in fifth at 68. The only other players who managed to break 70 on the Donald Ross-designed course were Butler's Robert McClellan, Cheltenham's 
 and Waynesburg's Robert Rohanna, who each shot 69s to tie for sixth. 
Sheftic, the son of well-known area teaching pro Ted Sheftic, won the York County Amateur in 1993. Since then he's gone on to become a well-regarded teaching pro in his own right. He currently works at the prestigious Merion Golf Club in eastern Pennsylvania, which was the site of the 2013 U.S. Open. He has also participated in several PGA Championships and was the Pennsylvania Open champion in 2011.
Two of the men chasing Sheftic, Rohanna and Vucinich, are also former Pennsylvania Open champions.
A number of other local players are competing in the event, which features a $40,000 purse and a $10,000 top prize.
West York's Josh Rinehart and Stewartstown's Alex Hofstrand shot 71s to tie for 20th position, while York's Nick Geiman came in at 72 to tie for 30th place.
Two other Yorkers, Brandon Knaub and Steven Bostdorf, managed 73s to tie for 37th. Also at 73 is Terry Hertzog, who lives in Lititz but is a teaching pro at CCY. He is also a two-time Pennsylvania Open champion.
Former York College golfer Nolan Peterson finished at 76 to tie for 67th.
Joe Parrini, who recently won the CCY men's club title on his 15th birthday, shot a 77 and is tied for 77th. Spring Grove's Richie Krebs and York College's Ryan Wolbach shot 78s and are tied for 84th. Another York College player, David Boslough, shot 80 and is tied for 100th, while CCY head golf pro Kevin Muldoon shot 81 and is tied for 106th.
The tournament will continue Tuesday and Wednesday. After Tuesday's second round, the field will be cut to the low 40 players and ties for Wednesday's final round. The winner will take home the Arnold Palmer Trophy. CCY is hosting the event for only the second time, with the other coming in 1989.
OTHER LOCAL GOLF
Merling's 74 leads York County contingent at state women's event: A number of York County golfers are competing in the Pennsylvania State Women's Amateur Championship this week at Bent Creek Country Club in Lititz.
In the amateur division, West York grad Aislynn Merling fired a 74 during stroke-play qualifying on Monday to earn the No. 7 seed in the championship flight. She'll face No. 10 seed Amy Loughney on Tuesday in match-play action. The top 16 scores advanced to match play in the championship flight.
Spring Grove rising senior Victoria Ross shot 79 and grabbed the No. 16 seed in the championship flight. She faces top-seeded Shannon Gramley in the Round of 16.
Amy Kennedy shot an 80 and will be the No. 1 seed in the first flight. She'll meet No. 16 seed Danielle Dalessandro on Tuesday. Central York rising freshman Julianne Lee shot 88 to grab the No. 14 seed in the first flight. She'll meet No. 3 seed Lisa Poritz on Tuesday.
York's Connie Shorb shot a 78 on Monday to capture a berth in the senior championship flight. Shorb is seeded No. 5 and is scheduled to face No. 12 seed Ruth Stover in first-round match-play action on Tuesday. Stover, who plays out of Range End in Dillsburg, shot 81 on Monday.
Logue shoots 70 at U.S. Amateur: Two-time York County Amateur champion Isaiah Logue is tied for 20th after the first round of stroke-play qualifying at the U.S. Amateur at the Atlanta Athletic Club.
Logue, from Fairfield, shot a 1-under-par 70 on Monday at the par-71 Highlands Course. Jimmy Beck, Taylor Moore and British teenager Sam Horsfield shared the lead at 6-under-par. The field of 312 players will be cut to 64 after Tuesday's round. The format then switches to match play on Wednesday, leading up to the championship on Sunday.
Aces at Briarwood: There were two holes in one at Briarwood Golf Club in Thomasville recently.
Eunice Jaeger aced the 104-yard fifth hole at Briarwood West using a 5-iron. It was witnessed by Iris McFaul, Joann Linn and Carol Phelps.
Ralph Rizzo had a hole in one at Briarwood East. He used a 6-iron to ace the 164-yard 12th hole. It was witnessed by Joe Applegate, Bryan Schreiber and Derek Miller.
  Reach Steve Heiser at sheiser@yorkdispatch.com
