Kenyan kids joined Ty kids joined Tyneside teens for a kicka neside teens for a kickabout as they visited bout as they visited the North orth East.
For ty-seven For ty-seven members of the members of the Ligi Nbogo -Swahili for 'Little hili for 'Little League' - club League' - club made the made the 4,535-mile trip 4,535-mile trip from the Kenyan from the Kenyan capital ca pital Nairobi, with an under-17s side in the region for eight days and younger players spending a fortnight on Tyneside. 
"I've been going over there for 10 years now for anywhere between four to [0/00]ve weeks and six months a year, and in March decided to go out there full time," said Malcolm Nevin, 39, from Denton Burn. "I got involved with this club about three years ago and last year we brought one team over. "at went so well that this year we have four teams - and hopefully we can make it an annual thing.
""e Montagu Boys Club have been a massive help, organising all the games and laying on food, and then Warm Zone came in and sponsored the strips."
Sta- at the Jesmondbased community interest company, which aims to tackle fuel poverty and improve the energy e[TM]-ciency of homes, donated 110, with the [0/00]rm itself adding a further 200 towards kit for the visitors.
"We think this visit really [0/00]ts with the ethos of Warm Zone as we area community interest company and the visiting club is a great example of community," said the company's survey manager John Leslie.
"Malcolm used to work for us - so we've kept in touch to see if we could help out with sponsorship. And everyone chipped in."
But to bring the youngsters from Africa took far more than just a new kit.
"We've some boys from the slum areas of Nairobi and for them we had to get passports and raise the funds to bring them over," said Malcolm. I think around a third of the boys will have never left Kenya before - and in some cases, they may never again."
During the visit the boys watched Newcastle United's pre-season warm-up against Real Sociedad.
Unfortunately it is highly unlikely that any of the visiting boys would be able to return to England to play professionally.Malcolm said: "[#x192]ere are two or three exceptional players within the group. However they're unlikely to ever play for Newcastle because Kenya are too low in the Fifa rankings and they would never get a work permit."
