Media outlets from around the country are following the story about 
. A sample of their coverage:
LA TIMES
"Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson said that Sunday night he was in protective gear in the parking lot outside Wal-Mart with Jon Belmar, the chief of St. Louis County police, when a car passed by, pointed a light at him and then he heard three gunshots. A shot was also fired at a police helicopter circling the area. No one was injured, Jackson said." 
VIBE
"Popular figureheads from Al Sharpton to Young Jeezy to Chingy have taken to social media to speak out against the trend of innocent African-Americans being killed by armed 'enforcers.'"
VOX.COM
"The incident provoked immediate anger and frustration in the community and around the country. The killing of Eric Garner, also an unarmed black man, by New York City police last month revived a public conversation about the history of police violence against black men, and the killing of Brown has inflamed it."
MSNBC
"Shortly after 
 was gunned down by police, an image of him wearing a red tank top, a serious face and throwing up two fingers, began circulating in the press. Social media users wondered whether the image had been selected to make Brown look intimidating, as a way of justifying the use of lethal force on an unarmed teen.
"A competing image of Brown, looking shy and self-deprecating inside what appears to be some kind of arcade, began circulating as well. Black Twitter users began posting their own contrasting images of themselves under the hashtag #iftheygunnedmedown, exposing the shortcomings of reducing a human being to a single out of context picture."
WONKBLOG, WASHINGTON POST
"But there's a much broader piece of context here that has to do with a legacy of racial segregation in U.S. cities, which has eroded more slowly in St. Louis than many other big metros. St. Louis remains among the most segregated metropolitan areas in the country."
JIM ROMENESKO.COM
The blog, which covers media news, published photographer David Carson's Facebook post about his experience covering looting and violence in Ferguson Sunday night.
Post-Dispatch photographer: "I was assaulted by a group that took objection to my work:
"Few bruises, torn pants, glad I was geared up so over all not too bad."
