Al Sharpton has seen the same tragic tale so many times over the decades he could recite the entire sequence from memory:
It always begins with an unarmed black or Hispanic male killed by cops during an arrest for some minor infraction.
Which is why Sharpton on Tuesday was in Ferguson, Mo., the St. Louis suburb rocked by angry protests and minor looting last weekend after local cops shot to death an 18-year-old black man they had stopped for walking in the street. 
The dead teen, 
, was scheduled to start college this week. The unarmed Brown assaulted an officer, cops say, a version several witnesses dispute.
There was no video here, like there was when Eric Garner died July 17 on Staten Island. That footage captured Garner being asphyxiated from an illegal chokehold by one of several cops arresting him for peddling loose cigarettes.
Sharpton went to Missouri at the request of Brown's parents, to give national voice to the rage of Ferguson's black community. Left unsaid was how his presence could also channel that rage into peaceful cries for justice.
His trip came only days after he changed plans for a big Aug. 23 civil rights march over the Verrazano Bridge to demand that the cop who fatally choked Garner, Officer Daniel Pantaleo, be indicted for homicide.
After vowing to lead thousands in a marathon walk over the Verrazano, Sharpton switched instead to a bus and car caravan, with a much shorter march to the site of Garner's death.
Some news reports claim the reverend caved to pressure from Gov. Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio. But several sources in the coalition of civil rights and labor groups co-sponsoring the march say it was the unions, especially 1199 SEIU, that persuaded Sharpton to modify his plan.
"It would have been a logistical nightmare to walk over that bridge," one union leader said.
Sharpton realized the controversy was becoming a diversion.
"Some people were trying to make the issue whether we walked or rode across the bridge," Sharpton told me, "instead of focusing on Eric Garner."
The kind of senseless police crackdown on blacks and Hispanics that ended in Garner's death is what de Blasio vowed to end as a mayoral candidate. To his credit, the mayor has reformed stop-and-frisk policies and welcomed stronger oversight of policing practices.
But his police commissioner, Bill Bratton, still clings to a policy of constant arrests in minority communities for quality-of-life crimes. During Bratton's first six months, the NYPD arrested 117,336 people for misdemeanors, nearly 90% of them black and Latino, according to a study the nonprofit Police Reform Organizing Project released this week.
That's up slightly from the 117,104 misdemeanor arrests in the same period last year under then-Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly.
Even for misdemeanor marijuana possession, nearly 90% of those arrested are black and Hispanic. Who in their right mind believes white youth don't smoke marijuana?
"They seem to believe a kid in the South Bronx who smokes marijuana will grow up to be a criminal, but a kid who does it in SoHo or Columbia University, it's just recreational use," Sharpton said.
Stop-and-frisk may have been "reformed," but racial profiling persists. That is why Sharpton will march on Staten Island on Aug. 23. And why the family of 
 is now expected to come from Missouri to join the protest.
