@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;Protesters clashed with police and looted stores in the Midwestern US suburb of St Louis, a day after an officer shot dead an unarmed black teen. 
Police armed with clubs hurled tear gas and deployed officers with dogs to curb the violence, which erupted late on Sunday in the suburb in Missouri. But local law enforcement officers were quickly overwhelmed and had to urgently call for back-up from nearby communities.
A gas station convenience store was plundered and set on fire. Looters also raided a Walmart and several other stores, and set fires elsewhere.
The violence broke out after large crowds of mostly African-American protesters gathered for a vigil at the spot where police shot and killed 18 year-old 
 a day ago.
@HD2 New Briefs head;Saudi Arabia beheads man
@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;Saudi authorities beheaded a national yesterday after he was convicted of killing his wife with an axe in front of their daughter, the interior ministry announced.
Mahdi al-Ghabari battered his wife Shaqraa al-Bahri several times on her neck with an axe, killing her "in the presence of their little daughter who witnessed" the crime.
He was executed due to the "hideousness" of the crime, said the statement.
@HD2 New Briefs head;NZ lawmaker 'racist'
@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;A high-profile New Zealand lawmaker was accused of racism yesterday after making what he called a "joke" at the expense of Asians as he railed against Chinese investment in the country's farming sector.
New Zealand First party leader Winston Peters told his campaign launch in Auckland on Sunday that he wanted to tighten restrictions on foreign ownership, telling the audience; "As they say in Beijing, two Wongs don't make a white."
The comment was labelled "disappointing and shameful" by New Zealand's Race Relations Commissioner Susan Devoy, while the ACT Party accused Peters of inciting hatred against Chinese ahead of a general election on September 20.
"Mr Peters may think it is funny to tell weak racist jokes but it is not funny to New Zealand's Chinese community," ACT deputy leader Kenneth Wang said. "Every time Mr Peters stirs up anti-Chinese feeling he gives racists in the community encouragement to attack Chinese. I have reports of Chinese women being abused in the street [and] young louts going into Chinese shops to abuse shop keepers."
Peters, a long-standing anti-immigration campaigner who in the past has warned about New Zealand becoming an "Asian colony", said his critics were lacking a sense of humour and claimed he was originally told the joke by a Chinese man in Beijing.
@HD2 New Briefs head;S Korea proposes talks
@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;South Korea yesterday proposed a fresh round of high-level talks with North Korea to discuss another possible reunion for families separated by the 1950-53 Korean War.
The first round held in February had marked the highest-level official contact between the two Koreas for seven years and led to a family reunion later the same month.
The South's Unification Ministry said it was proposing a meeting at the border truce village of Panmunjom on August 19. [#x20ac]" AFP
