The Los Angeles Police Department said Wednesday that a man fatally shot by officers earlier in the week tried to remove a handgun from an officer holster.
Officials released information about Monday's fatal shooting after local civil rights leaders and activists called for a swift investigation, likening the incident to the recent shooting death of an unarmed teen by police officers in Ferguson, Mo.
According to LAPD reports, two gang officers from the Newton Division stopped the man about 8:10 p.m. as he walked on a sidewalk near 65th Street and Broadway in South Los Angeles. A struggle ensued when the man grabbed one of the officers and tried to remove the officer's handgun from its holster, prompting both officers to shoot, police said. The officer who was grabbed fired a backup weapon, police said. 
Police spokesman Cmdr. Andrew Smith said the man was unarmed.
The man was taken to California Hospital Medical Center, where he died, said Lt. Fred Corral of the L.A. County coroner's office. 
Police would not say why they stopped the man, and they have not released his name, saying only that he was in his mid-20s. Local civil rights leaders and neighbors identified him as Ezell Ford.
Ford's family told KTLA/5 on Monday night that he was mentally disabled.
Ashanti Harrison, a neighbor who said he witnessed the shooting from his second-story bathroom window, told the Register that Ford had put his hands in the air, was tackled to the ground and shot three times while laying down.
Harrison, 31, said he grew up with Ford.
"He was cool. He did not bother nobody," Harrison said. "He was kind of slow. The whole neighborhood took care of him."
Neighbor Keshawn Hardeman, 30, echoed those sentiments, describing Ford as respectful and calm. 
"He's not a threat. He's good people," Hardeman said. 
Speaking to reporters Wednesday at the scene of the shooting, Los Angeles Urban Policy Roundtable President Earl Ofari Hutchinson said the incident echoes a similar shooting of an unarmed man over the weekend in a St. Louis suburb.
"We have our own 
" he said. "We want answers. ... Do you really want to find the truth? That's my challenge to the LAPD." 
Brown was shot dead Saturday by a white police officer in Ferguson, Mo., triggering chaotic protests and exposing deep racial and economic fault lines in the community. The chief of the St. Louis County Police Department, which is hand ling the investigation, has said there was a struggle over the officer's weapon before numerous shots were fired. 
Hundreds took to social media to blast the LAPD for Monday's shooting, but the neighborhood where it happened was calm. A protest organized on Facebook is planned for 3 p.m. Sunday at LAPD headquarters downtown. 
As with all officer-involved shootings, the inspector general, the Police Commission and the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office are expected to investigate. 
"The LAPD views any loss of human life as a great tragedy," Assistant Chief Earl Paysinger said in a statement. He encouraged witnesses with evidence, such as video recordings of the shooting, to call police. 
In part, Paysinger's statement read:
"On August 11, 2014 at approximately 8:10 p.m., two uniformed LAPD officers driving in a marked police car and assigned to the Newton Area Gang Enforcement Detail (GED) were driving westbound on 65th Street approaching Broadway when they saw a man walking on an adjacent side walk. The officers stopped the patrol car, exited the vehicle, and attempted to talk to the individual. After looking in the officers' direction, however, the individual continued walking and made suspicious movements, including attempting to conceal his hands. 
"When the officers got closer and attempted to stop the individual, the individual turned, grabbed one of the officers, and a struggle ensued. During the struggle, they fell to the ground and the individual attempted to remove the officer's handgun from its holster. The partner officer then fired his handgun and the officer on the ground fired his backup weapon at the individual."
It was the second officer-involved shooting by Los Angeles police in less than 48 hours. 
On Tuesday night, a narcotics officer wounded a man in a shooting near 30th Avenue and West Ninth Street in Jefferson Park.
The Associated Press 
contributed to this report. 
