President Obama said Thursday that he wanted an open and transparent investigation into the shooting death of an unarmed 18-year-old black man by the police on Saturday in a St. Louis suburb. 
Expressing concern over the ''violent turn'' of events in this St. Louis suburb, President Obama said Thursday that he wanted an open and transparent investigation into the shooting death of an unarmed 18-year-old black man by police on Saturday.
Speaking on Martha's Vineyard, the Massachusetts island where he is on vacation, Mr. Obama said there was no excuse for any use of excessive force by the police in responding to the unrest that has played out over the five days since the man, 
 was shot while walking with a friend. 
''Now's the time for healing,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Now's the time for peace and calm on the streets of Ferguson.''
Mr. Obama said he had called Missouri's governor, Jay Nixon, expressing concern about the violence on the street and the police response. Mr. Nixon said Mr. Obama had told him that he ''wanted us to be a better and more peaceful society.''
Earlier, Mr. Nixon promised that residents of Ferguson would see a different tone in the response by police, in which tear gas and rubber bullets have been used to control the crowd.
''While we all respect the solemn responsibility of our law enforcement officers to protect the public,''Mr. Nixon said in a statement. ''We must also safeguard the rights of Missourians to peaceably assemble and the rights of the press to report on matters of public concern.''
Earlier Thursday, a group identifying itself as Anonymous, the computer hacking collective, disclosed what it said was the name of the police officer who fatally shot Mr. Brown. Writing on Twitter, the group said it would publish additional information about the officer, including his photograph, if it did not receive a response from the St. Louis County Police Department, which is overseeing one of the investigations into the death of Mr. Brown.
The name of the officer released by Anonymous could not be immediately confirmed. But the St. Louis County Police said on Twitter that the name released by Anonymous was ''not even an officer with St. Louis County or Ferguson.''
The Ferguson Police Department has declined to release the name of the officer, citing concerns for the safety of the officer and his family.
On Wednesday night, Ferguson was buffeted by another round of protests over the shooting. The selective release of information by the authorities about the shooting, and especially the anonymity granted to the officer, have stoked frustrations in this largely African-American community north of St. Louis, where residents describe tense relations with the police.
The police chief, Thomas Jackson, has declined to identify the officer, who has been put on administrative leave. Chief Jackson said Wednesday that the officer who shot Mr. Brown had been struck in the face during the encounter and treated at a hospital. The chief said that a side of the officer's face was swollen from what the police have described as a struggle in which Mr. Brown assaulted the officer and tried to take his gun - an account disputed by a witness, a friend of Mr. Brown's who said his hands were raised when the last of several shots was fired.
Despite persistent and increasingly angry calls from the public to release the officer's name, Chief Jackson said the officer required protection after numerous death threats had been made.
Computer hackers, saying they were outraged by the department's conduct, have also joined the fray. Anonymous said Wednesday on Twitter that it had broken into Ferguson's municipal computer system. It released details about city workers and posted photos of Jon Belmar, the chief of the St. Louis County Police, who is conducting the investigation into the shooting, as well as those of his wife, son and daughter.
On Wednesday night, scores of police officers in riot gear and in armored trucks showed up to disperse protesters who had gathered on the streets near the scene of the shooting. A police spokesman said that some demonstrators had thrown firebombs at officers and that some had tried to set fires. The police used tear gas on demonstrators, and some protesters said rubber bullets had been fired at them.
The police made more than 10 arrests. Among them was Antonio French, a St. Louis alderman, who had been documenting the protests on social media, his wife said on Twitter.
Two reporters covering the protests said they had been arrested inside a McDonald's on accusations of trespassing and released without charges or an explanation. The reporters, Wesley Lowery of The Washington Post and Ryan J. Reilly of The Huffington Post, both said they had been handled roughly by the police.
