St Louis streets tense after police shoot young man MOURNING: 
 mother, Lesley McSpadden. Photo: Getty Images By Nick O'Malley in Washington Three days after a young black man was shot dead by police, tension on the streets of St Louis, Missouri, remained high. Still, nobody seemed quite sure what happened. All that was certain was 
, 18, was unarmed when he was shot several times just after 2pm on Saturday in the suburb of Ferguson. 
St Louis County Police Department chief Jon Belmar said officers "had an encounter" with Mr Brown, during which the youth pushed an officer and reached for his gun.
"It is our understanding at this point in the investigation that there was a struggle over the officer's weapon. There was at least one shot fired in the car."
But Mr Brown was found dead more than 10metres from the car and, according to his mother, was shot eight times. Piaget Crenshaw, a young local woman, told a local Fox station Mr Brown was walking with a friend, Dorin Johnson, to his grandmother's apartment when an officer in a car ordered them to get off the road.
After a verbal altercation, the officer shot Mr Brown dead as Mr Johnson hid behind a car.
Mr Brown graduated from high school this year and was to start at a technical college on Monday.
After the shooting, events followed a tragically familiar path. Soon the streets filled with protesters, some yelling "kill the police". Fearing a riot, police flooded the streets with officers.
On Sunday night the riot broke out. A dozen or so businesses were vandalised or looted, two officers injured and 32 people arrested. On Monday the streets were calm but tension remained high, especially as an autopsy report was soon to be made public.
Angered that the media appeared to select photos of young black men that made them look menacing, thousands posted dual photos of Mr Brown or themselves online.
One post showed Mr Brown looking streetwise beside another of him looking comfortable in a classroom.
Another typical post showed a photo of a young man throwing a gang sign beside another of him in military uniform reading to children.
Mr Brown's shooting had been compared to the death of Trayvon Martin in 2012.
In that case, the young black teenager was shot dead by George Zimmerman, a neighbourhood watch volunteer who believed the teenager, wearing a hooded sweatshirt, looked suspicious.
The St Louis Post-Dispatch reported Mr Brown's family had retained Trayvon Martin's lawyer Benjamin Crump to represent them.
The shooting came as civil rights organisations prepared for protests in New York over the death of Eric Garner, 43, who died after police allegedly used an illegal chokehold on him while arresting him for selling single cigarettes on the street.
