Protests continue over teen's death
FERGUSON, Mo. - Police in riot gear fired tear gas into a crowd of protesters in a St. Louis suburb where an unarmed black teenager had been fatally shot by police over the weekend, as tension rose even amid calls for collective calm.
Between two nights of unrest, a community forum hosted by the local NAACP chapter Monday night drew hundreds to a sweltering church in Ferguson, the nearly 70 percent black suburb where an unarmed 18-year-old, 
 was shot multiple times by a police officer. 
Ferguson Police Chief Tom Jackson said a large crowd that gathered throughout Monday at the site of a burned-out convenience store turned rowdy at nightfall, throwing rocks at police. Officers used tear gas and shot "beanbag rounds" meant to stun them, he said.
St. Louis County police spokesman Brian Schellman said there were at least five arrests and no reports of looting. Nearly three dozen people were arrested following a candlelight vigil Sunday night when crowds burned stores, vandalized vehicles, assaulted reporters and taunted officers.
Floods slow auto production
DETROIT - Record-setting rainfall in the Detroit area has slowed vehicle production and closed some facilities, automakers said today.
General Motors closed its Tech Center in the Detroit suburb of Warren because of flood damage. The company told the 19,000 engineers, designers and others who work at the 330-acre campus to stay home while facilities are cleaned.
GM spokesman Bill Grotz said the flooding didn't appear to cause severe damage to the historic campus, which was designed in the early 1950s by architect Eero Saarinen.
GM said production at local plants wasn't affected. But flooding did cause slowdowns at Detroit's other two automakers.
Four Chrysler plants - including one in Detroit and three in the suburbs of Warren and Sterling Heights - were flooded Monday.
Ford also slowed production Monday at four suburban Detroit plants.
Atlantic City's newest casino closing
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. - Atlantic City's newest casino is shutting its doors just over two years after opening amid high hopes of turning around the crumbling seaside resort's gambling market.
Revel Casino Hotel will shut down next month after failing to find a buyer in bankruptcy court, company officials announced today.
The company said the $2.4 billion casino will close its doors on Sept. 10. It has never turned a profit.
The closure will mean the loss of more than 3,100 jobs.
Sailors rescued near Hawaii
HONOLULU - A container ship crew on Monday rescued three men who were stranded in a sailboat off the Hawaiian islands for about 24 hours as Hurricane Julio battered their vessel with giant waves and high winds that ripped off one of its hatches.
The sailors made it onto the container ship at about 8 a.m., Coast Guard Chief Warrant Officer Gene Maestas said. They were in good condition, he said.
The men got into trouble while sailing the 42-foot Walkabout from California to Hawaii, Warrant Officer Maestas said.
The Coast Guard said it received their message for help Sunday morning after the boat became disabled and started taking on water about 400 miles northeast of Oahu. The sailboat was stranded in 30-foot seas and winds of 92 to 115 mph, according to the agency.
The rough conditions broke the vessel's mast, tossed its life raft overboard and blew off one of its hatches, worsening the flooding, Petty Officer 2nd Class Tara Molle said.
The Coast Guard coordinated the rescue with the Matson Inc. container ship, which started out in Long Beach, Calif., and was on its way to Honolulu to deliver goods.
