PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti
Police still looking for 319 escapees after breakout
The attack on a Haitian prison on the capital's outskirts to free the son of a prominent businessperson led to the escape of 329 inmates, officials said Monday. Police were searching nationwide for the escaped prisoners and have also asked for help from Interpol as well as authorities in the neighbouring Dominican Republic and nearby Jamaica because some men may have fled abroad. So far, authorities have only managed to capture 10 of the prisoners who escaped Sunday during an armed attack on the prison in Croix-des-Bouquets to free Clifford Brandt, a member of a wealthy family who has been held since 2012 for allegedly running a kidnapping ring. 
STOCKHOLM
'Francois Mitterand was my father,' would-be MP claims
A Swedish politician surrounded by rumours of being the secret son of Francois Mitterand has said in an interview that the late French president was his father. Hravn Forsne, a 25-year-old running for Parliament, made the claim in an interview with Kungsbacka-Nytt, a local newspaper in his electoral district. If the claim is correct he would be Mitterrand's second child with a mistress.
MIAMI
Police search for rabbi's killers after weekend shooting
Miami-Dade police on Monday said they are committed to finding the people responsible for shooting and killing a rabbi walking to temple in Northeast Miami-Dade over the weekend. "Rabbi Joseph Raksin, who was visiting his family from Brooklyn, was on is way to Bais Menachem Chabad at about 9 a.m. Saturday when he was gunned down.
FERGUSON, Mo.
FBI investigating possible civil rights violation in police shooting
The FBI is investigating after a suburban St. Louis police officer fatally shot an unarmed teenager. The agency opened an investigation Monday into possible civil rights violations arising from the death of 18-year-old 
 Brown was shot multiple times Saturday in a scuffle with an officer in Ferguson. A candlelight vigil for Brown was held Sunday, and tensions erupted later that night. Nearly three dozen people were arrested after a crowd looted and burned stores, vandalized vehicles and taunted officers.
HELSINKI
Kasparov fails to unseat head
of World Chess Federation
Former world champion Garry Kasparov failed in his bid to oust the eccentric longtime head of the World Chess Federation in a bitter contest steeped in Russian power plays. Kasparov, a vocal critic of President Vladimir Putin, was the sole challenger against Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, a wealthy businessperson known to be supported by Putin. Ilyumzhinov, who once claimed to have visited an alien spaceship, has headed the governing body of chess for 19 years.
