PORT Vale are aiming for fourth-time lucky as they attempt to beat Hartlepool at home in the Capital One Cup tonight to give themselves the chance of a lucrative second-round draw. 
The Valiants have fallen at the first hurdle of this competition in each of the last three seasons, bowing out with home defeats to Huddersfield, Burnley and Walsall.  
So, tonight's home tie against the League Two side gives them the chance to make the second round for the first time since Micky Adams's side stunned Neil Warnock's QPR with a 3-1 victory at Loftus Road in August 2010.  
Can they do it? If they play as well as they did in the first half  against Walsall on Saturday then they have every chance. However, if they play like they did after the break against the Saddlers then we could be in for a long evening. 
Adams was happy enough to start the season with a point, but disappointed that his team threw away the initiative after Tom Pope's 25th-minute opener. 
Walsall looked the more likely winners once Tom Bradshaw equalised on 59 minutes so assistant boss Rob Page said there were lessons to be learned. 
The management were particularly unhappy that  Vale failed to deal with Walsall's deep-lying striker Romaine Sawyers, who played briefly for the Valiants when he made one appearance against Cheltenham, on loan from West Brom in January 2011.  
Page, 
, said: "We were disappointed in the second half because we had addressed it on Friday and knew that as the game went on and got stretched Sawyers could exploit those gaps in between the midfield and back four.
"So, it was important the distances between back and front were nailed on.
"I think that's where we let ourselves down a little bit. There were too many gaps from back to front and players like Sawyers  are good enough to exploit that, as are Walsall as a team.
"I thought from 60 minutes onwards they came into it a lot more and we drifted away a bit.  So, from that point of view we are disappointed. "
Page is giving nothing away regards selection, although Adam Yates, Steven Jennings, 
 and Chris Birchall are all likely to come into consideration. 
It will also be interesting to see whether Adams gives Chris Neal a run out in the cup, or sticks with Sam Johnson having given the younger keeper the shirt for the Walsall game. 
Whoever plays, Page says they must respect Colin Cooper's Hartlepool side which has been strengthened with the arrivals of 35-year old former Ipswich and Sunderland midfielder Tommy Miller and 21-year-old on-loan Middlesbrough winger Ryan Brobbel.
They also have 34-year-old former Nottingham Forest and West Ham goalscorer Marlon Harewood as well as highly-rated 19-year old striker Luke James. 
Tonight's meeting also means a return to Vale Park for former Valiants skipper Sam Collins, now 37, who is a player coach with the north east side. 
Collins played 149 games for the Vale after Brian Horton brought him in on a free transfer from Bury in the summer of 2002. He stayed for three-and-a-half years before moving to Hull City for around 65,000. 
The defender joined Hartlepool in 2008, has now clocked up more than 250 appearances for the club, and started at centre-half alongside Matthew Bates in Saturday's 1-0 defeat at Stevenage.
Page added: "We have to be professional irrespective of who we are playing against, whether it is a top-of-the-table team in our division or someone in League Two. 
"I know Tommy Miller, he has a fantastic pedigree and is a talented footballer and a great addition to their squad. I have played against Marlon Harewood many times He's been there and done it and got experience at top levels and is another good addition to their squad. It will be a tough test for us." 
Whoever gets through tonight will be unseeded in the  second-round draw, which will be made tomorrow evening.
Being unseeded means Vale or Hartlepool would play against a Premier League club or a team who finished in the top half of the Championship last year. 
They couldn't face any of the Premier teams involved in Europe because they have byes to the third round, but that would still leave the possibility of pulling out Manchester United or Stoke City.
It is a normal dress code for the Hartlepool supporters tonight, which wouldn't be the case if this were their final game of the season. 
The club's supporters traditionally attend the final game of the season in matching fancy dress. So, in April dozens headed to Plymouth kitted out as Thunderbirds. Previous year's themes include penguins, Where's Wally and Oompa Loompas.
