heavily armed police fired tear gas, stun grenades and smoke bombs as America's worst race riots for more than a decade reignited for a fourth consecutive night.
The rioters - on the streets after a police officer shot dead an unarmed black teenager - replied with rocks, petrol bombs and chants of Hands up, don't shoot'. 
A man identified on Twitter as the officer behind the shooting in Missouri was last night in hiding - though it later emerged blundering hackers had named the wrong man. President Obama interrupted his holiday to speak out about the clashes in Ferguson, a suburb 12 miles north of the city of St Louis.
He said there was no excuse for attacks on the police but added: We lost a young man in heart-breaking and tragic circumstances.
When something like this happens, the authorities, including the police, have a responsibility to be open and transparent about how they are investigating that deaths.'
The violence follows the death of black teenager 
 last Saturday. Friends claim he had his arms in the air when he was shot several times. However, officials in Ferguson said the 18-year-old was involved in struggle for a police gun and an officer was wounded in the face in the scuffle.
So far more than 20 shops have been looted and dozens of arrests made. Witnesses say largely peaceful protests during daylight hours have turned into rioting as the police try to enforce an evening curfew.
Police are also accused of heavy-handedness. Soon after Mr Brown's shooting they began using dogs for crowd control - a tactic that for some was a reminder of civil rights protests a half-century ago.
County Police Chief Jon Belmar, insisted officers had responded with an incredible amount of restraint', because they had been the targets of rocks and gunshots.
The town's population of 21,000 is two-thirds black, but only three of the local force's 53 officers are black.
Police said Mr Brown was shot after a struggle for an officer's gun in a squad car. At least one shot was fired inside the car.
However, Dorian Johnson, who says he was with Mr Brown, claimed an officer fired after the victim tried to run away.
Online activists Anonymous hacked into the town's computer system and named an officer as the man who shot Mr Brown. Other Twitter users then began making death threats.
Police said it was the wrong man. Do not release more info on this random citizen,' said a spokesman.
 Daily Mail
