9.00AM:That's about all we've got time for today, ladies and gents. We're about to depart, as is the HMAS Darwin, which is headed for Sydney after stoppingin Twofold Bay at Eden overnight.
Stay tuned to the Eden Magnet today for our one-on-one interview with Commanding Officer Terry Morrison, and a whole lot of photos from around the ship. 
8.55AM:Everyone's a bit baffled by this mystery fish, which was found at Tathra. Can you shed any light on what species it may be?
8.50AM:Speaking of indoor weekend plans, here's a good place to start for those of you a bit further north:
8.45AM:Might need to make some indoor weekend plans!
8.40AM:Australia's first Clown Doctor, Dr Peter Spitzer, has been farewelled at a touching memorial service in Bowral. Story, photos and video are all here.
8.35AM:Did you catch this one yesterday? Social media has responded, in typically hilarious fashion, to Joe Hockey's comments thatAustralia's "poorest people don't havecars or actually don't drive very far in many cases". So, here are #OtherThingsThePoorDontDo:
8.30AM:Michaela Pascolutti and Tamsin Webber got it right on Facebook. Our 'Where is this pic?' today comes from Tura Beach - Dolphin Cove to be exact!
8.25AM:Another something found on the Instagram scroll. Isn't this a true icon of the South Coast! Who's been inside?
8.20AM:We've already told you about the traffic lights, and here's another new decision affecting the Batemans Bay landscape.
8.15AM:Just found this gem on Instagram. The caption sums it up perfectly...
8.10AM:What's been happening on the beat in Kiama and the Illawarra? Click through to find out:
8.05AM:On sale in Bega and surrounding towns today, another bumper edition of the BDN...
8.00AM:How cool is this! Can't say I've ever seen a bird feeding a dog and a cat before...
7.55AM:Do you think Berry needs an ambulance station? Read our story here and let us know your thoughts.
7.52AM:Both lanes on the Bomaderry side of Cambewarra Mountain are now being closed after a truck became disconnectedfrom its trailer. Traffic is being diverted but motorists are advised to allow extra travel time.Keep up to date here.
7.50AM:Newtraffic lights at Batemans Bay have been given the green light. Do you think they're needed? You'll find the details here.
7.45AM:Low tide at Mystery Bay last night...
7.40AM:Batemans Bay is getting international attention thanks to these ladies!
7.35AM:Here's one to warm the heart. The communitiesof Bega and surrounding districts paytributea great man...
7.30AM:Time for a 'Where is this pic?' Who knows where these stairs lead? We'll post the answer at 8.30!
7.25AM:Robin Williams' wife has revealed the entertainer was battling the early stages of Parkinson's Disease. Read more here.
7.20AM:We're absolutely loving these entries that are rolling in for a photography comp in Eden. Take a squizz at the mega gallery and see if you can rustle something up by the time it closes on Monday!
7.15AM:You don't turn 100 every day!
7.10AM:Violent clashes between protesters and police are continuing in the United States, five days after a police officer allegedlyshot18-year-old 
 dead in suburban St Louis. Catch up on the latest developments and see more of the photos here.
7.05AM:Caring neighbours had tried to help the caring elderly couple who were found dead in their Valley High unit, along with their dog, in Merimbula on Tuesday.
7.00AM:British police have spent six hours searchingthe apartment of pop legend Cliff Richard, over an allegation of a sex offence dating back to the 1980s.Read more here.
6.55AM:Bemboka residents were without power for a lengthy period yesterday afternoon. We're pleased to report that all homes should now be up and running again. Full story here.
6.45AM:Morning all, it's all happening already. A truck crash has closed one lane on Cambewarra Mountain. Find out more here.
6.30AM: Good morning and welcome toour regional morning report, the South Coast BrekkieWrap! Over the next fewhours we will bebringing you as much information as possible from across the NSW South Coast and nationally.
Weather, road conditions, breaking news, we will have it all - and we'd love to have your help!If there's anything happening in your part of the world - from Kiama to Eden, drop usa line! Email blake.foden@fairfaxmedia.com.au
WEATHER:
Wondering what the weather will be doing today? Click on your town for a full report.
Nowra
Batemans Bay
 Bega
Merimbula
 Albion Park
A LAUGH TO GET YOU STARTED:
Joe Hockey reckons Australia's "poorest people don't havecars or actually don't drive very far in many cases". So, in typically hilarious fashion, social media decided to come up with #OtherThingsThePoorDontDo. Here's my personal favourite:
Check out the full galleryhere.
TRAFFIC:Both lanes on the Bomaderry side of Cambewarra Mountain are now being closed after a truck became disconnectedfrom its trailer.Traffic is being diverted but motorists are advised to allow extra travel time.
TRAINS:There's a good service on the South Coast line this morning.
ANNIVERSARIES:
1904Dalgety is named as the site of the future Federal Capital Territory of Australia.
1945 Australian Prime Minister Ben Chifley announces the end of the war against Japan, on what is now known as VP Day (Victory in the Pacific) in Australia.
1985 The opal is made the state gemstone of South Australia.
BIRTHDAYS:
Jennifer Lawrence (24)
Joe Jonas (25)
Ben Affleck (42)
