Where civil rights activist Al Sharpton goes, national attention follows.
So as the Rev. Sharpton arrived in St. Louis on Tuesday to add his voice to the many who have protested the shooting of 
, it was seen as an event - a kind of validation that the incident had become a national cause.
Sharpton walked arm-in-arm downtown Tuesday morning with Brown's family members, their attorney and clergy, before speaking to a crowd at the Old Courthouse. 
About 50 people and twice as many reporters heard him call for peace, prayer and a continued push for justice.
By evening, more than 1,000 people packed a church located half a mile from the shooting as the Baptist preacher and TV host hit on similar themes.
Known for crisscrossing the country to deploy to civil rights controversies, this is Sharpton's mode of operation. Recently, he led the charge against the handling of the Trayvon Martin case, calling the acquittal of George Zimmerman last year an "atrocity" and "a slap in the face to those that believe in justice."
To his critics, Sharpton is a spectacle - and a divisive and self-serving one at that.
To others, he is a galvanizing and potent orator and a mouthpiece for the message of justice.
Flanked by 
 parents at the Old Courthouse, Sharpton sought to keep the focus on that message.
"This is not a cause for them," Sharpton said. "This is not some prop for politics. This is their child."
Sharpton said the purpose of his visit was to help the Brown family gain justice and to ensure federal authorities complete a full investigation.
He said Brown was killed while showing an arms-in-the-air surrender sign to the police officer.
"Deal with the last sign he had shown," Sharpton said in a booming voice to a responsive crowd, with some clapping in agreement. "We want answers why that sign was not respected."
Sharpton lashed out against violent protests. "To become violent in 
 name is to betray the gentile giant that he was," Sharpton said. "Don't be a traitor to 
."
Baltimore-based Pastor Jamal Bryant joined Sharpton, saying the Brown shooting has become a national event.
"St. Louis is in fact bearing witness for America," he said. "The Band-Aid has been ripped off, and all of America is seeing the open wound of racism exists."
Tuesday wasn't the first time Sharpton has sought to draw attention to events in St. Louis.
Perhaps his most notable visit came in 1999, when he was among 125 people arrested for standing on Interstate 70, bringing Monday morning rush hour traffic to a halt.
The action was taken to seek to increase minority participation on highway projects. A construction training program was initiated as a result, and including minority contractors has become a more common practice on various capital projects.
Four years later, Sharpton was back in St. Louis as a Democratic presidential candidate to push Metro to hire more minority contractors for a MetroLink expansion project.
Less than two months later, in September 2003, Sharpton was here urging students to boycott the first day of classes at St. Louis Public Schools. Opponents were upset that a New York management company had been hired to run the school district that year, which included some school closings. High first-day attendance numbers showed that Sharpton's appearance had little bearing.
Critics have accused Sharpton of stoking controversy instead of working for resolution.
Perhaps Sharpton's biggest stumble as a civil rights activist came in 1987 when he fiercely defended Tawana Brawley, a 15-year-old African-American girl who claimed she had been assaulted and raped by six white men, some of them police officers, in upstate New York.
A grand jury determined Brawley had fabricated her story. Sharpton and two other men were successfully sued for defamation.
On Tuesday, Sharpton drew a packed crowd to the Greater St. Mark Missionary Baptist Church, 9950 Glen Owen Drive. He did so at the same hour that faith leaders had already organized a competing forum at Christ the King United Church of Christ, on Old Halls Ferry Road.
 cousin, Eric Davis, spoke prior to Sharpton.
"He wasn't the type of kid who wanted to hurt anyone," Davis said of his cousin. "What happened on Saturday was they cut my cousin's life short."
Sharpton took to the podium and spoke for more than a half-hour, with the Brown family behind him.
"If you think you are mad, think about how they feel," he said to a crowd that repeatedly thundered in applause and amens.
Sharpton said he knows St. Louis and mentioned his prior activism here. He said he has been shining a light on injustices for years, making sure what is done in the dark is seen by the world.
This battle, he told the crowd, will take time.
"People should be in it for the long haul," he said. "You have to have a long-term strategy. You can't be mad for two weeks."
