An unarmed black teenager fatally shot Saturday by a police officer in Ferguson, Mo., had been struggling for the officer's gun, law enforcement officials said Sunday as hundreds of protesters gathered outside the Police Department.
St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar said 
 18, struggled for a Ferguson police officer's weapon in a patrol car before the officer fired several shots about noon Saturday. Witnesses have said Brown had his hands in the air as he fled the patrol car.
St. Louis County police, separate from the Ferguson police, are handling the investigation, which Belmar said would be thorough. 
"We are investigating this incident as we would any other shooting," said a statement on the St. Louis County agency's Facebook page. "There is no bias or favoritism applied as we are an outside agency and were not involved."
Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson described the incident as "tragic" in an interview with Fox 2, the local Fox television affiliate. "It's tragic for the community. It's tragic for our police family."
The unnamed officer who fired the shots, who has been on the force for six years, has been placed on paid administrative leave.
The number of shots fired is unknown, though Belmar said Brown was shot "more than just a couple of times."
According to Belmar, Brown was walking with a friend in the middle of a street when an officer tried to exit his vehicle. Police said Brown pushed the officer back into the police car. Brown then entered the officer's vehicle and a struggle ensued over the officer's weapon, according to police. During the physical altercation, a shot was fired inside the car.
The officer and Brown then exited the vehicle and, at that point, the shooting occurred, Belmar said.
Witnesses have had different accounts.
Dorin Johnson, a friend of the victim, told Fox 2 that he was walking in the street with Brown when the police squad car pulled up. The officer said to "Get the eff onto the sidewalk," he recounted.
"It was not but a minute from our destination and we would be off the street," Johnson said.
Johnson said the officer didn't get out of his police car but "reached his arm out the window and grabbed my friend around the neck."
"I witnessed the police chase after the guy, full force," said witness Piaget Crenshaw.
"He ran for his life. They shot him, and he fell. He put his arms up to let them know that he was compliant, and he was unarmed and they shot him twice more and he fell to the ground and died."
Belmar said the crime scene extends about 35 feet from where the police car was parked to where the fatal shooting took place, and where shell casings matching the officer's weapon have been found.
While the police held the news conference Sunday, hundreds of protesters gathered in front of the Ferguson police station, saying, "Don't shoot me!" as they held up their hands.
Hundreds of residents from the neighborhood gathered Saturday night at the crime scene in protest. The crowd grew to 1,000 people, according to local media reports.
"It got heated very quickly," Jackson said. "There was ... lots of shouting and anger, protests and so forth."
Louis Head, Brown's stepfather, held a sign that said, "Ferguson police just executed my unarmed son!!!"
Lesley McSpadden, Brown's mother, said the shooting was "wrong and it was coldhearted."
Dozens of police cars were parked near the shooting scene as mourners left votive candles at a makeshift memorial in the middle of the street.
At the height of the post-shooting tensions, police at the scene called for about 60 other police units to respond to the area in Ferguson, a city of about 21,000.
msrikrishnan@tribune.com
