TEN minutes before kick-off and the 79 Hartlepool fans who made the trip to Vale Park didn't seem to have a care in the world as they happily batted a beach ball across the expanses of the Hamil End.
Eighteen minutes into the game and their mood had changed considerably thanks to one Ben Williamson who could not have done more to ruin their evening if he had celebrated his hat-trick by lighting up a cigar and stubbing it out on their inflatable.   
So often we have heard that Williamson's game has everything but goals - just don't tell that to Hartlepool whose Capital One Cup hopes were skewered by the 25-year- old  striker's left-foot, right-foot, header perfect hat-trick in the space of 10 minutes.
Vale historian Phil Sherwin was understandably equipped with a pie and Bovril rather than his record books as he settled into his seat at Vale Park.
However, the leading authority on the Valiants reckons Williamson's 10-minute treble is the quickest Port Vale hat-trick since Fred Mitcheson  scored three in just three minutes in 1934. 
Williamson's exploits made this a more comfortable evening than it could have been against a Hartlepool side who made it 1-1 through Jonathan Franks on 10 minutes before Neil Austin's penalty pulled the scores back to 3-2 on 59 minutes.
Happily, 
, who is from Hartlepool, upset his home town with Vale's fourth on 62 minutes, before Tom Pope netted the fifth and sixth on 74 and 85 minutes.   
Micky Adams had made two changes to the side which drew at home to Walsall on Saturday as Chris Birchall replaced Louis Dodds on the right wing of the 4-4-2 formation and Chris Robertson came in for the injured Richard Duffy at right-sided centre-half.
Robertson was quickly into the action with an immaculate sliding challenge to deny Luke James in the area in the first minute.
However, Vale were quickly into their stride and took the lead after eight minutes when Robertson passed the ball square to Ryan McGivern on the half way line and the Northern Ireland international began to gallop forward. 
The defender ended his run with a ferocious, swerving 25-yard strike which keeper Scott Flinders could only parry.
Williamson did the rest, volleying the ball between the keeper's legs to put Vale in front.
However, the lead only lasted two minutes as Jonathan Franks was given room to shoot 25-yards from goal. He should have been closed down, but Vale wouldn't have expected the brilliant finish which followed as Franks hammered the ball low, beating Sam Johnson's dive across to his near post.
Vale, however, were quickly back on the front foot, thanks in no small part to Mark Marshall who was nominally playing on the left wing but proving impossible to pick up as he kept drifting inside to find space behind Williamson and Pope.
The winger played a major part in Vale's second as Williamson found him in the area. Marshall took on and bamboozled three players before playing the ball back to Williamson who squeezed his shot between Flinders and his near post from close range.
Williamson took just three more minutes to complete his hat-trick, as he moved into position to meet Birchall's cross from the right. The ball was delivered with precision and Williamson did the rest as he rose above his marker to head past Flinders.
Vale could have had a fourth on 26-minutes when a lovely flowing move found Marshall 25 yards from goal and central. The winger curled the ball past the stranded Flinders, but just wide of the far post.
Pope mistimed his header straight to Flinders after he was picked out by Birchall's cross,  but the keeper was forced into two brilliant saves before the break - first to push away Michael O'Connor's 25-yard free kick, and then to make a reflex stop from Pope's 12-yard half volley.
Micky Adams made a change at half-time as 
 replaced O'Connor in midfield.
Birchall's 20-yard strike was well held by Flinders as Vale tried to put the game beyond their visitors' reach.  
Carl Dickinson had to come to the rescue after Sam Johnson spilled a cross from the left, but the keeper was back on form moments later when he dropped to his left to hold Neil Austin's dipping 25-yard volley. 
Johnson saved smartly from Franks after the left winger skipped past Freddie Veseli to make room to shoot.
However, Hartlepool forced their way back into the game after Robertson was penalised for a push on former Vale skipper Sam Collins in the area.
Left-back Neil Austin took the penalty, sending Johnson the wrong way and hammering the ball into the bottom left corner.
That could have meant squeaky bum time for Vale, but instead they extended their lead three minutes later after Marshall tore down the left.
The winger whipped in a cross which took a deflection off a defender before reaching Brown who crashed a header into the roof of the net from 10 yards.
However, Hartlepool weren't done yet as Johnson saved from winger Ryan Brobbel as Vale lived dangerously at the back. 
Williamson departed to a deserved standing ovation when he was substituted for Louis Dodds on 73 minutes. 
Dodds took less than a minute to make an impact. He took aim from the edge of the area and saw his low strike pushed away by Flinders into the path of Pope. The striker made no mistake as he steered the ball home from six yards.
Flinders saved from Dodds after the substitute had jinked his way clear in the area on 83 minutes. But there was time for more Vale celebrations as Chris Lines crossed to the back post where Pope met the ball with a header across goal and inside the far post.    
It could have been seven but Flinders saved superbly from Brown to spare Hartlepool further misery.
By this stage, there was no sign of the beach ball.
