POLICE in St Louis, Missouri, faced protests yesterday after an officer shot dead an unarmed black teenager.

, 18, was shot at least twice after a confrontation with the policeman in the mainly black suburb of Ferguson on Saturday. 
 Jon Belmar, the chief of St Louis County Police, said that the incident began with a fight in a patrol car that quickly escalated.
 He said the teenager assaulted the policeman and "it is our understanding... that within the police car, there was a struggle over the officer's weapon". It appeared that one shot was fired inside the vehicle. The officer, who has not been named, then fired "multiple shots" at 
 after he left the car.
 The shooting happened close to the home of the teenager's grandmother, Desiree Harris. She said she saw her grandson running when she passed him in her car. Minutes later, she found his body on the street.
 "He was running this way," she said. "When I got up there, my grandson was lying on the pavement. I asked the police what happened. They didn't tell me."
 John Gaskin, a member of the St Louis County National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, called for a federal investigation into the shooting. He said the FBI should get involved "to protect the integrity" of the inquiry.
 Mr Gaskin said officials had spoken to Mr Belmar, who told them the teenager had been shot twice.
 Jamilah Nasheed, a Democratic state senator, told the St Louis Post-Dispatch that she would ask the Justice Department today for a formal investigation. Ms Harris said her grandson had recently graduated from high school and was looking forward to the future. "My grandson never even got into a fight," she said. "He was just looking forward to getting on with his life. He was on his way."
 Mr Brown's mother, Lesley McSpadden, told an acquaintance that the shooting was "wrong and it was cold-hearted", according to the St Louis Post-Dispatch.
 A crowd of some 200 people gathered at the site of the shooting on Saturday, some of them shouting "kill the police" and yelling profanities, a county police spokesman said.
 Several distraught relations were outside talking with neighbours, including the teenager's stepfather, Louis Head, who held a sign that read: "Ferguson police just executed my unarmed son!!!" Dozens of police cars remained parked near the scene as mourners left candles and flowers at a makeshift memorial in the middle of the street.
 Thomas Jackson, the chief of the Ferguson police department, said the officer involved, a six-year veteran had been placed on paid administrative leave.
 "We are hoping for calm and for people to give us a chance to conduct a thorough investigation," he added.
