Officers in riot gear lobbed tear gas Monday night at crowds angered by the weekend shooting of an 18-year-old unarmed man by a police officer, according to published reports. 
KSDK-TV in St. Louis reported that police officers trying to quell unrest and violence began firing tear gas at crowds here. There are no reports yet of injuries.
Authorities blocked access to many areas of Ferguson where the unrest has been building, the Associated Press reported. KTVI-TV also reported that police in riot gear were using tear gas to disperse a crowd of protesters. It said there were reports of rubber bullets being fired. KMOV-TV said the tear gas was being fired at people gathering near a major intersection.
Sunday night, two police officers were injured and 32 arrested during riots. Demands for answers in Ferguson have been steadily growing louder after police fatally shot 
The FBI opened an investigation Monday into the death of Brown, who police said was shot multiple times Saturday after being confronted by an officer in Ferguson, a suburb of 21,000 that's nearly 70% black.
Authorities were vague about exactly what led the officer to open fire, except to say that the shooting was preceded by a scuffle of some kind with a man. It was unclear whether Brown or the man he was with was involved in the altercation.
Investigators refused to disclose the race of the officer, who is now on administrative leave. But Phillip Walker said he was on the porch of an apartment complex overlooking the scene when he heard a shot and saw a white officer with Brown on the street.
A protest in front of St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Bob McCulloch's office is scheduled for Tuesday.
Chief Tom Jackson with Ferguson police told KSDK said earlier in the day that peaceful demonstrators are allowed to protest, but if rioting begins, the crowds would be disbanded by police. Jackson has said his department is receiving threatening phone calls and emails.
Brown's family has retained attorney Benjamin Crump, best known as the attorney for the family of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teen shot and killed by George Zimmerman, a white neighborhood watch volunteer, in Florida.
"I don't want to sugarcoat it; their baby was executed in broad daylight," said Crump, who stood by Brown's parents during a press conference Monday night. "We want to know and see exactly what happened because this family rejects what the police authorities said at their press conference."
Crump went on to say that Brown's death is an echo of the problems that led to the deaths of Trayvon Martin, Jordan Davis and Eric Garner.
Contributing: Elizabeth Matthews and Christina Coleman, KSDK-TV; the Associated Press 
