 The John Birch Society has issued the following news release:
The shooting of 18-year-old Micheal Brown by a police officer, sparked riots, looting, vandalism, and large protests. 
Riots in Ferguson, Missouri, a suburb of St. Louis, began Sunday following a vigil for 
, who was shot and killed by a police officer on Saturday afternoon. The riots continued on Monday.
Almost from the beginning, estimates of the number of people involved in the riots, the damage inflicted on businesses, and testimonies from eyewitnesses of the shooting varied greatly and conflicted with police reports. A minimum of 12 businesses were heavily damaged and looted, and at least one, QuikTrip, a gas and convenience store, was burned to the ground. Numbers of those involved in the riot varied between two hundred and several thousand, many from out of town. Business owners in the area, some of them armed, prepared to defend themselves as the riots escalated.
According to Dorian Johnson, he and a friend, 
, an 18-year-old who had graduated from high school earlier this year and was prepared to start classes at a local technical college on Monday, were walking down the middle of a street in Ferguson, a town of 21,000 about 10 miles northwest of downtown St. Louis, when a police cruiser pulled up alongside them and an officer told them to walk on the sidewalk. Eyewitness Piaget Crenshaw said that Johnson, Brown, and the officer "got into a verbal confrontation and the officer attempted to put Brown in the police car. When Brown began to flee, his hands in the air, the officer got out of the car and started shooting at Brown."
Another eyewitness at the scene told the press that the officer was in his car when he started shooting at the boys. Johnson said that he and Brown started running when they heard the first shot. The officer "shot again and once my friend felt that shot, he turned around and put his hands in the air. He started to get down and the officer still approached with his weapon drawn and fired several more shots."
St. Louis County police chief, Jon Belmar, held a news conference on Sunday morning, saying that a man had been shot and killed after he assaulted a police officer and the two had struggled over the officer's gun inside his patrol car. At least one shot was fired from inside the car, said Belmar. A slightly different version came from a report on the incident by the Wall Street Journal:
For further information please visit: http://www.jbs.org
