 COLIN Cooper admits picking his captain was by no means an easy decision but he has backed Matthew Bates to be a huge success.
Ahead of last Saturday's Sky Bet League Two 1-0 defeat to Stevenage, Cooper had been keeping his cards close to his chest over who would get the armband.
But when the teams were confirmed it was revealed ex-Boro, Bristol City and Bradford City defender Bates had got the nod. 
Cooper wasn't shy of candidates either, with player coach Sam Collins, Neil Austin, Stuart Parnaby and Tommy Miller all in with a good shout of being named captain.
Bates has been described as a "natural leader" by his former team mate-turned-manager.
The 27-year-old central defender will once again be wearing the captain's armband for tonight's Capital One Cup first round match away to Port Vale (KO 7.45pm).
Cooper, speaking ahead of tonight's match, told SportMail: "It's not easy picking a captain. 
"I have actually heard other managers talking about their situation and how they had players in the dressing room who were all capable and I have that here.
"Big Sam [Collins] has a slightly different role to Matthew [Bates], and there is also Oz (Neil Austin), Tommy [Miller], Parns, Marlon - all good experienced players with great qualities.
"Matthew is a leader, a natural leader and can organise himself as well as other people. 
"That will only develop. He is 27 and by the time he hits 30 he will be a top-class captain. 
"He has captained teams - a bit like I was - at all levels from Under-10 upwards.
"Then, when you become a captain of a Football League team, it does come with other responsibilities. 
"He can look after his own game and will look after others.
"I'm very happy to have four or five of them who are capable of doing the job and will lead in their own way, but he's got the armband."
Ahead of tonight's cup match, the Pools boss has no new injury concerns, with goalkeeper Andy Rafferty again missing out after picking up an injury in training.
That means on-loan Sunderland keeper Joel Dixon will again start on the bench.
Cooper may tinker with his side that was beaten 1-0 at Stevenage.
Second-half substitutes Ryan Brobbel - on loan from Championship neighbours Boro for a month - and Jonathan Franks added a bit more creativity and energy when they came on.
The pair could be in line for a start at Port Vale tonight.
New signing Michael Woods, who signed last Friday the same day Pools confirmed Miller, Brobbel and Dixon had also joined, could also make his Pools debut.
Port Vale - who will have Hartlepool-born midfielder 
 in their squad - drew 1-1 with Walsall at Vale Park in their opening League One fixture.
Cooper made a strong attempt to sign Brown in the summer, but the former Premier League midfield enforcer opted to sign for the Valiants instead.
Earlier this summer, Cooper told SportMail that the 37-year-old would have "loved" to have signed for Pools but his family is settled in the North West and that was a big factor in his decision.
Vale keeper Sam Johnson is likely to keep his place after edging out Chris Neal to start against The Saddlers at the weekend, while boss Micky Adams will hope Colin Daniel proves his fitness after missing the season-opener.
Cooper, meanwhile, is expected to be able to call on the same squad as Saturday, with Luke James available despite strong speculation linking him with a big-money move to Peterborough United.
Cooper confirmed at the weekend that there has been interest but that there hadn't been any bids for James from Peterborough United or any other club. 
But the 19-year-old striker, who took part in training as normal at Maiden Castle on Monday, is still very much on Posh's radar.
Looking ahead to tonight's match, Cooper said: "We stand up to the challenge for Tuesday and it will be a different one to Stevenage.
"As it stands it's the same squad for Tuesday. 
"I battered the office staff on Friday to get four players in and registered.
"I think the supporters will like to see Michael Woods when they get to see him and we will have to see how the older players are.
"They are fit enough to go again on Tuesday if we need them."
Pools (likely): Flinders, Duckworth, Bates, Collins, Austin, Miller, Walker, Brobbel, Compton, James, Harewood.
Subs (from): Dixon, Richards, Nearney, Holden, Parnaby, Franks, Woods, Hawkins. 
l Visit www.hartlepoolmail.co.uk for team news, half-time and full-time match reports from tonight's match. 
Follow @RMennearHMail and @HPoolMail on Twitter for live updates throughout the match. 
