The man who coached Australia to their first World Cup finals appearance in 1974 says if the Socceroos do not win next year's Asian Cup, it should be viewed as a failure. 
Rale Rasic was named alongside Socceroos greats Brett Emerton and Paul Okon as official ambassadors for the AFC Asian Cup, which kicks off in 150 days in Australia and will run from January 9-31.
Rasic said Australia would have no excuse to walk away from the tournament empty-handed, given they finished runners-up in the 2011 tournament after losing 1-0 to Japan in an extra-time thriller.
"Nothing else is good enough except prize No.1," Rasic, 78, said. "You can't overlap this objective here, there is no, 'We are building up'. We are in a tournament to win and we must win. I think second place is just not good enough because we've been second on too many occasions. The Asian Cup is the only way of concluding that we are building towards the next World Cup and that we are good enough to win the Asian Cup."
Australia's biggest rival among the other 15 competing nations will undoubtedly be Japan but Rasic said poor results from the World Cup would motivate other countries, which could make the Socceroos' quest for their first Asian Cup extremely difficult.
"Every tournament you enter, as far as Asia is concerned, there is Japan, Australia, South Korea, Iran and all four finished bottom of their groups in the World Cup and they have something to prove," Rasic said. "When you are favourites, not only by results but favourites because you have come so close, there is nothing you can compare. There is no excuse in the world that you can make outside of finishing No.1."
Brett Emerton, who came on as a 65th-minute substitute in the 2011 final, will be a little more forgiving of the Socceroos if they do not win but believes Australians in general do not fully comprehend the enormity of what it means to host a tournament of such significance.
"People here don't understand how big football is [in Asia], so it's a great opportunity for us to showcase that and for our international team to win some silverware," he said. "Football in Asia has come on in leaps and bounds. We've got some great competition in Japan and South Korea; they have some of the best players in the world."
Asian Cup local organising committee chief executive 
 said he was confident fans would pack into Stadium Australia when the final takes place on January 31.
