Related story: Protests turn violent in St. Louis suburb, Missouri governor to visit
The riot that enveloped a suburban St. Louis neighborhood and destroyed a QuikTrip store has forced the Tulsa-based company to focus on two priorities, spokesman Michael Thornbrugh said Thursday. 
No. 1, make sure all the store's employees are safe and have access to counseling.
And No. 2, offer them transfers to the dozens of QuikTrips nearby but outside of that danger zone.
"Honestly, the only focus we have is we're taking care of employees and customers at other locations," Thornbrugh said. "We've been unable to even go in and do anything else at the location."
A QuikTrip in Ferguson, Missouri, was looted and destroyed Sunday in the wake of outrage over a police shooting in that town. 
 an unarmed 18-year-old black man, was shot dead by an officer one day earlier.
The shooting was not close to the store, but the QuikTrip was caught in the mob destruction and theft.
"Unfortunately, we were in the path," Thornbrugh said. "The individuals involved went up and down and destroyed as many businesses as they could."
QuikTrip is not blaming the Ferguson community in general. In fact, company leaders have taken heart in how many words of regrets and good wishes they received from customers and residents in the St. Louis suburb.
"That is a positive," Thornbrugh said. "We truly are getting numerous phone calls, messages from everybody in the St. Louis community. They're sorry, they wish us well; it's very flattering."
Thornbrugh said the store is a "total loss" and it's too early for the company to decide whether it will rebuild. No dollar figure was available, but he previously estimated the loss will likely total seven figures, according to the St. Louis Business Journal.
The company also is leaving security issues to the police there. The Associated Press reported later that the Missouri State Highway Patrol will step in to take over security.
"With all due respect, there's nothing left to protect," he told the St. Louis Business Journal earlier this week.
QuikTrip has a recently completed Generation 3 store a few miles away in Ferguson but has closed that store temporarily as a precaution against other potential violence, he added.
"It's a day-by-day decision," Thornbrugh said. "This whole situation is tragic and sad."
QuikTrip has about 75 stores in the St. Louis area, including some on the Illinois side. The Tulsa convenience store chain has 700 stores nationwide.
