EAST ST. LOUIS > Man gets 57 months in robbery o A Michigan man was sentenced to 57 months in prison Tuesday for robbing a Highland bank in February, the U.S. attorney's office said.
Alexander P. Gerth, 18, of Troy, Mich., was one of two men who robbed the Bradford National Bank on Valentine's Day. The other was Ramsey Z. Fakhouri, 22, also of Troy, Mich., who was in a long-distance relationship with a bank employee and was trying to get $13,000 to buy her an engagement ring.
The men hatched the plan when they heard the unnamed employee explain the procedure by which the bank's ATM was stocked with cash, prosecutors said. They drove to Highland and used an air gun to rob the employee stocking the ATM, they said. On their way home, Fakhouri got a text from his girlfriend about the robbery, and returned by bus to comfort her. Gerth drove home. 
Two days after the robbery, Fakhouri's girlfriend was emailed a photo of the robbers, and Fakhouri tried unsuccessfully to explain why he appeared in the photos.
Police recovered most of the money that they'd taken.
Fakhouri was sentenced to six and a half years in prison last month.
ST. LOUIS COUNTY > Man accused of beating baby son to death o A north St. Louis County man was charged with child abuse resulting in death after police said he struck his 3-month-old baby boy's head against a "hard object" on Tuesday. The baby, identified by St. Louis County Police as Skyy Ricks, died at a hospital later that day.
Dearis L. Ricks, 21, of the 10800 block of Spring Garden Drive, was charged Tuesday. The baby was taken to a hospital after being found unresponsive at home. Ricks confessed, court documents say.
He was being held in lieu of $200,000 cash-only bail.
EDWARDSVILLE, ILL. > Police evidence thrown out o Authorities are trying to determine how and why evidence in more than 100 Alton cases has been destroyed or discarded, clouding prosecutions.
Madison County State's Attorney Tom Gibbons said his office learned on July 23 that an Alton Police Department evidence officer improperly disposed of the evidence in pending criminal cases, nearly half of them involving felonies, the (Alton) Telegraph reported Tuesday.
The evidence officer has been placed on administrative leave.
"This is a very serious matter," said Gibbons, who has reached out to the U.S. attorney's office, Illinois State Police and the FBI to help with the investigation. Gibbons said he does not believe criminality factored into how the evidence - none of it involving money - went missing, though the investigation continues. Gibbons said the evidence includes items such as crack cocaine, heroin, guns, marijuana, a satchel, tools and surveillance tape.
Gibbons said the most-affected cases involve major drug-dealing crimes, many of them developed by undercover operations.
ST. LOUIS > Looters hit shoe store off Gravois o The windows of a shoe store in St. Louis were smashed and the store looted late Monday, police said.
About 11:55 p.m., a caravan of cars pulled up to the Shoe Carnival at 3503 Bamberger Avenue in Gravois Plaza and 30 to 40 people got out, police say. The group, wearing T-shirts to cover their faces, smashed windows to get inside and stole shoes and other merchandise. Glass, shoes and socks littered the sidewalk in front of the store after the break-in.
An unarmed security guard saw the looting and called police.
The group also attempted to break into the Radio Shack store in the same plaza.
St. Louis police Lt. Donnell Tanksley said he did not know whether the break-ins had anything to do with other looting in the wake of the fatal shooting of an unarmed teen by Ferguson police. But he said it is unusual that it was a caravan of vehicles.
Mayor Francis Slay said on Tuesday that city police are "closely watching incidents like last night's for patterns and for connections to events outside the city."
Slay added: "The vast majority of people who want justice for 
 are expressing themselves peacefully. A small number are not. So, our police will be doing their job keeping our citizens safe, protecting property, and arresting criminals."
Police later arrested two people acting suspiciously near the door of a Radio Shack in the 3400 block of Hampton Avenue. Police say they don't know whether that was related to the previous break-in at the Shoe Carnival.
