After days of unrest in Ferguson, Mo. after the fatal shooting of an 18-year-old unarmed man, 
 organizers are planning vigils in more than 90 cities around the country to commemorate victims of police brutality. 
The events were organized on Twitter by a loose network of Twitter users and social media activists under the hashtag #NMOS14, which stands for National Moment of Silence.
Organizers have also used Facebook to invite and register participants for the vigils in each city. A Facebook page for the vigil in Civic Center Park in Denver, for example, listed about 200 people out of 1,400 invited indicated that they planned to attend. The vigil at Malcolm X Park in Washington had 1,400 registrants out of the 7,800 who were invited. Washington and Chicago are so far, expected to have the largest turnouts, organizers said.
In a document listing the Facebook pages for the cities hosting vigils, organizers asked participants to tie a red cloth around their arms, except ''in areas where doing so can cause conflict.'' The vigils will begin at 7 p.m. Eastern time and a moment of silence is planned at 7:20 p.m.
Kelly Hayes, who is helping to coordinate the Chicago vigil, which will be at the Richard J. Daley Center, said the event was expected to be peaceful and would include participants holding signs with the names and details of victims of ''folks from Chicago and all around the country who have fallen to police violence.''
Ms. Hayes said the Chicago vigil would also include poetry readings and music by members of a nonprofit organization called the Black Youth Project. ''We want to make sure that the voices heard are coming out of the most heavily impacted communities,'' she said.
The vigils coincide with another set of rallies said to be organized by the hacktivist collective Anonymous that will be held in many of the same locations as the National Moment of Silence, a move that has been criticized by some of the vigil organizers.
''To have Anonymous come along and say let's turn this peaceful moment into a day of rage is highly problematic,'' said a Twitter user and primary organizer of the vigils named Michelle who tweets under the moniker @FeministaJones, and declined to give her last name because she says she has received threats. ''The last thing we need is for police around America showing up because they anticipate Anonymous hackers showing up with their Guy Fawkes masks,'' she said.
Ms. Hayes in Chicago said she did not have immediate concerns about the police clashing with attendees at the vigil but ''we will have lawyers and police liaisons on the ground just in case communication with the police is necessary.''
