THE SUBURBAN St. Louis town where a cop shot an unarmed black teen dead descended into turmoil Wednesday night as protesters hurled bottles and Molotov cocktails and police in riot gear fired back with tear gas."We have to stand and fight here right now!" one woman screamed as helmeted cops moved in to disperse a demonstration over the death of 18-year-old 
Several hundred demonstrators packed the main street in Ferguson, Mo., holding up their hands in surrender pose and chanting "Stand Up! Don't Shoot!" 
A team of officers wearing riot gear and toting shields stood about 100 feet from the protesters.
Just after 9 p.m., cops issued several warnings over a loudspeaker, saying, "You are being ordered to leave now! If you don't leave peacefully, there will be arrests."
Someone in the defiant crowd threw a bottle at the police line. Cops responded by firing tear gas canisters and flash grenades that sparked and emitted ear-splitting booms.
"We're not dogs, so what the hell you've got those whipping sticks for?" one man shouted at police. "Because you want to whip us like dogs."
Another protester pointed his finger at a cop and hollered, "If I'm going to go, I'm taking one of you with me!"
Gunshots were also heard, apparently fired by protesters at the police. One bullet whizzed by the head of a Daily News reporter. Tear gas billowed over W. Florissant Ave., Ferguson's main drag, where the protesters gathered before sunset.
Police Chief Tom Jackson had suggested a voluntary sundown curfew on protesting after looting and violence followed Saturday's shooting of Brown.
During the chaos to break up the demonstrations, a reporter for The Washington Post and another for the Huffington Post were briefly placed under arrest when a half-dozen cops stormed a McDonald's.
"It was tense," said Wesley Lowery, the Washington Post reporter who was detained, adding that police slammed him against a soda machine and slapped plastic cuffs on him. Lowery and Ryan Reilly, the Huffington Post reporter, were both released without being charged.
Earlier Wednesday, protesters gathered in front of the QuickTrip on W. Florissant, a store that was looted and set ablaze on Sunday.
"The whole damn system is guilty as hell!" the crowd chanted at cops standing behind their shields. SWAT officers stood atop two armored vehicles and pointed .40-caliber automatic weapons mounted on tripods at the demonstrators.
The tense standoff came after a hacker collective posted recordings of police radio chatter in the moments after Brown's death on the Web Wednesday.
Moments after the unidentified Ferguson cop killed Brown, a county police dispatcher reported an urgent request from an officer in trouble.
"Need assistance with crowd control," she said in the recordings. A short time time later, the dispatcher reported an "officer-involved shooting" but added, "Be advised. This information came from the news."
Thirty minutes later, it was all hands on deck.
"Attention, all cars. Be advised we are switching over to the riot channel," she said.
The apparent confusion was revealed in recordings that Anonymous obtained and posted Wednesday. The effort is part of the hacker group's "Operation Ferguson" to make sure that Brown's death is investigated.
The group is also trying to unmask the white officer who fired the fatal shots. Chief Jackson has refused to identify the cop because of threats against his life.
The tapes were unveiled on the same day that Brown's pal Dorian Johnson - who claims the teen was "shot like an animal" after the cop told him to get on the sidewalk - met with police and FBI investigators.
Johnson said the cop grabbed Brown around the neck and tried to pull him through the window of his cruiser.
"He says, 'I'll shoot,' " said Johnson. "A second later, the gun went off and he let go. That's how we were able to run at the same time."
Johnson said he ducked behind a car, but one of the officer's shots hit Brown in the back.
"My friend started to tell the officer that he was unarmed and that he could stop shooting. Before he could get his second sentence out, the officer fired several more shots into his head and chest area.
"It was just horrible to watch," Johnson said.
