HOW THEY LINE UP IF Jimmy Anderson takes the eight wickets he needs to pass Sir Ian Botham's record of 383 in the fifth Test, which starts at the Kia Oval today, he will know there is one person perhaps more than any other who set him on the path to greatness.
 Plenty of people can claim to have had a part in his achievement but of all of them, Valerie Brown, the mother of one of his team-mates at Burnley CC when he was an unknown teenager, might just be the most important. She made a sheepish phone call in 1999 to family friend John Stanworth, then in control of what constituted Lancashire's academy. 
 Stanworth recalls that it took just one over in a trial, in the February of the following year, for Lancashire to initiate a thorough review of how on earth a lad from just up the road nearly slipped through their net.
 Those six balls convinced those watching to offer him a season with the county, setting him on a path that, 15 years later, could end up with him crowned as the greatest bowler England has produced.
 "He had really good pace - probably late 70s early 80s - but it was the late movement which really stood out, and he had control of it as well," said Stanworth.
 "Even back then the lines he bowled gave him the ability to turn batsmen inside-out."
 That ability was well known to those who had seen him bowl as a 17-year-old in the Lancashire League proving ground.

 son of Valerie and brother of David, who was to become Anderson's best man, played with Anderson and went on to have his own professional career at Middlesex, Hampshire and Surrey.
 "I remember he nicked off Roger Harper, who was a pro for Nelson, first ball when he was just 15. On another occasion, just 15. On another occasion, he bounced out Martin van Jaarsveld, who played nine Tests for South Africa," said Brown.
 "He gained a yard of pace every year from then on and by 2000 it was obvious he was going to be snapped up."
 Three years later, Anderson was in the England set-up but after a dozen Tests he was fading from favour. Duncan Fletcher had never seemed as convinced as Nasser Hussain about his talents and, along with Troy Cooley, the then bowling coach, attempted to change his action.
 Australian Cooley had success with Brett Lee and those close to Anderson believe he used a blueprint that had been successful with the more vertical and upright quick. The result was a loss of form, confidence and a stress fracture to his back.
 By 2006, Anderson was back at Lancashire, where Mike Watkinson helped him rediscover his head-down delivery action and his form. After a number of false starts between late 2006 and December 2007, he re-emerged as an England player at Test level under Peter Moores in March the following year. He has been an ever-present since then, as he has chased down Jim Laker, Alec Bedser, Brian Statham, Derek Underwood, Fred Trueman and Bob Willis with a relentless stream of wickets.
 Bowling coach David Saker said: "Jimmy is the lifeblood of the team and he is the most skilful person with the ball you will ever see. Without him there have been many occasions when we would have been lost. Add to that he has a heart of gold."
 Brown added: "People see the snarling, scowling character on the field or see his low-key interviews off it and they make a judgment about what sort of bloke he is, but they don't see the other side.
 "In 2011, he organised an Ashes dinner with Chris Tremlett which cleared a 15,000 brewery bill and kept the club going. And every year he gives 2,000 to have a charity on the front of our shirts.
 "After Headingley he was in tears after failing by a ball to save the Test against Sri Lanka and utterly spent, but he was booked as the star attraction at our club golf day. He rocked up with the usual load of kit and signed shirts. Nothing has changed him as a person since he was playing in the second team 15 years ago."
 @gideonbrooks
