A FATHER and daughter have been left afraid to work in their shop after  two  men burst into the store  brandishing one-metre lengths of wood.

 prosecuting, told Truro Crown Court how  Alan and Lisa Page, were working in Bargain Booze in Fore Street when  Scott Williamson, 27, of Broom Hill, Saltash and Jamie Dean, 22, of Tothill Road, Plymouth,  burst into the shop. 
He said they were each holding a piece of wood, which they were brandishing above their heads.
"Their reason for entry to the shop was to look for a man.  
"They found him, chased him around the store and knocked over bottles of alcohol in doing so," said Mr Brown.
The court heard Dean and Williamson had admitted to an offence of criminal damage in relation to the broken bottles and affray for bursting into the off licence.
Mr Brown added that a member of the public tried to intervene but was  injured.
He said that in a victim impact statement, Mr Page had described feeling threatened and fearful while his daughter said she had suffered nightmares as a result of the incident.
Mr Brown said: "Both are in fear of working alone in the store."
Chris Nicholls, defending, said Williamson had a problem with alcohol but was working with the addiction charity Addaction. 
He said Williamson had a seven-week old daughter who he was allowed to see if he did not smell of alcohol.
Dean, who represented himself at the hearing, told the judge he had moved out of Saltash and was living in Plymouth with his girlfriend and that in three months' time he would qualify as a carpenter.
He added that he regretted the offence: "I realise I have done a silly, silly thing," he said.
Sentencing Williamson to eight months in prison, Judge Nicholas Rowland said he had a bad record with a number of previous convictions for public disorder.
Sentencing Dean to six months in prison suspended for 12 months, Judge Rowland said his record was rather different.
He added: "This was an extremely serious episode. Rather than spontaneous, this was planned using a weapon threatening those inside."
They were both made the subject of a restraining order banning them from going to Bargain Booze in Saltash for 12 months.
