After a week of mounting tension in southeast Queens, the news that three officers would face criminal charges in the shooting of 
 came as a relief to Bishop Erskine Williams. He heard it on television yesterday afternoon and could not stop smiling. 
  ''I think the fever's breaking,'' Bishop Williams said. ''People will be more at ease now.'' 
When the same news reached the 103rd Precinct station house, on Police Officer Edward Byrne Avenue, one officer, a 17-year veteran who declined to give his name, said he was sorry to hear it. A jury would see -- he was sure of it -- that Mr. Bell's death, while tragic, was nothing more than an accident. But, he said with resignation, the indictments ''will make the public happy.'' 
  Word spread through Mr. Bell's Jamaica, Queens, neighborhood by cellphone and television all afternoon: Three officers would face criminal charges in the Nov. 25 death of Mr. Bell, 23, who was killed when police fired more than 50 shots into his car after he left a strip club on the morning of his wedding. Two detectives, Michael Oliver and Gescard F. Isnora, would face manslaughter charges, and a third, Marc Cooper, would be charged with reckless endangerment, two people with direct knowledge of the case said. 
  At the Baisley Park Houses, where many of Mr. Bell's friends live, people were drinking Champagne out of plastic cups. But in Harlem, the Rev. Al Sharpton looked drained and somber as he stood beside Mr. Bell's fiancee, Nicole Paultre Bell, at his Harlem headquarters, minutes after the three indictments became public. 
  The charges are no cause for celebration, he said. 
  ''It is with no pleasure that we would see their families sitting in a courtroom,'' Mr. Sharpton said. ''It is with no joy that we would see them having to do a perp walk. They will never feel the humiliation of a woman waiting for her wedding, and her husband not being there because he was taken in a hail of bullets. 
  ''There is no joy,'' he added. ''There is no vengeance. There is no party here.''
  The grand jury had been meeting for seven weeks, and anxiety built as it neared its conclusion. On Monday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg met with community leaders in a Queens catering hall to discuss how the public might react to the verdict, and 1,700 police officers were on alert all week. By Wednesday, the wait had become agonizing to many. ''There has been a lot of tension,'' said Archie Spigner, who represented southeast Queens on the City Council for 28 years, until 2002. He welcomed news of the indictments, which show, he said, that ''the process works.'' 
  ''It's not a happy day, but I urge all of us to have faith in the system,'' he said. ''Now we'll watch and see what comes.'' 
  The indictments would restore his neighbors' confidence in the criminal justice system, said Bishop Williams, who is pastor of New Seasons Family Worship Center and a spokesman for Joseph Guzman, 31, and Trent Benefield, 23, the two men who were wounded when Mr. Bell was killed.
  ''We were pretty much of the opinion that the cops pretty much had their way. Whatever they said went,'' he said. ''I think this will sort of restore some trust. It's necessary when you've had this type of egregious act take place. It has to be dealt with, and I think it was.'' Others had similar feelings. Suzanne Mendoza, a nurse's aide who was at McDonald's restaurant on Jamaica Avenue when she heard the news, called the result ''unbelievable.'' She had been convinced there would be no indictments, and said she was shocked to be wrong.
  But there were few places where the news was greeted more warmly than at the Baisley Park Houses, where Mr. Bell spent a lot of time with his friends. After his death, the police raided the buildings in an effort to gather information about potential witnesses, angering many of its residents. A wall at Baisley Park has been converted into a tribute to Mr. Bell, with a Bible opened to a passage from the book of Amos, which begins, ''Let justice roll down like waters, and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream.'' 
  As Friday afternoon progressed into evening, the mood at Baisley Park went from relief to exuberance. An empty bottle of Moet Champagne was set beside the Bible. People ignored the wind and sleet, toasting one another. Nisha Greaves, 18, shook her head and said only, ''I'm happy. I'm happy.'' Darren Goodman stood near the tribute wall, thinking about how Mr. Bell died.
  ''This could have happened to anyone here,'' he said. ''It could have happened to me.'' A friend walked up, and Mr. Goodman said, ''Did you hear?''
  ''I'm at a loss for words,'' the friend said. ''I'm at a loss for words.''
