THE THREE detectives indicted in the fatal shooting of 

 face an uphill legal battle fraught with tough decisions that may ultimately decide the case, legal experts said yesterday.
Can they get a fair trial in Queens or should they seek a change of venue?
Request a trial by judge or jury? 
To testify or not to testify?
"Do not underestimate how difficult it is to defend a police officer," said defense lawyer John Scarpa, a former Queens assistant district attorney who 20 years ago prosecuted cops in the infamous 106th Precinct stun-gun torture case.
"Jurors are predisposed to hold cops to a higher standard, so although the prosecutor has the burden to prove they're guilty, the burden probably shifts in police cases, and cops have to show their actions were reasonable."
After Detectives Gescard Isnora, Michael Oliver and Marc Cooper are booked, their mug shots taken and they are released on bail Monday, the march to trial begins with a review of the grand jury presentation.
Defense sources believe Isnora and Oliver are charged with manslaughter and Cooper with reckless endangerment, although the indictment remains sealed. The grand jurors simply concluded that there was more evidence than not that the detectives had committed a crime - a far lower standard than the reasonable doubt threshold at trial.
Even though all five cops involved in the Nov. 25 shooting testified before the grand jury, experts say it's no shock three were unable to head off an indictment, since defense lawyers couldn't cross-examine witnesses or put their spin on the evidence.
"The defense should be able to turn this on its head at trial," said attorney Joseph Tacopina. " 'Reckless' is a very subjective term. There's no question there was some improper conduct by the victims, and the cops thought their lives were in danger," he noted, referring to Bell driving his auto toward Isnora and a police van.
In the coming weeks, the defense will file motions to review the grand jury minutes for legal errors, followed by the release of a mountain of forensic reports and statements made by cops and witnesses.
"I personally know [that] the assistant district attorney in charge of the investigation, Charles Testagrossa, is a person of the highest integrity, and I am certain he did his best to make a fair presentation to the grand jury," Scarpa said.
The cops cleared in the 1999 fatal shooting of unarmed Amadou Diallo successfully transferred the trial from the Bronx to Albany, but any decision to change the venue in this case won't be made until after the defense has reviewed the evidence and learned which Supreme Court justice will preside.
"I think a change of venue motion would be appropriate, especially if the negative publicity continues," said attorney Steve Brounstein, who defended Officer Kenneth Boss in the Diallo case. "This is going to be a fight, but they don't have to make those decisions now."
Deciding whether a defendant will testify is usually a trial-time decision, but it is virtually certain the detectives' best chance of acquittal rests on justifying their actions in their own words, the experts agree.
Both sides also will line up experts on police tactics and firearms training to argue that the officers violated procedures or reacted as best they could to a chaotic situation.
"Police shootings by multiple officers are not always clear-cut because of their different perceptions of what's happening," said retired NYPD Capt. Edward Mamet, who has testified as an expert in police practices.
jmarzulli@nydailynews.com
Graphic: Detective Michael Oliver Fired 31 times (reloaded once)
The 35-year-old former vice cop logged more than 600 arrests during his 12-year career, but he'd never shot his gun on the job until he fired on 

 The dapper detective is a man about town and was a regular at Chelsea's Bungalow 8 club, where he was nicknamed "Undercover Mike."
CHARGES: second-degree manslaughter*
INDICTED
Detective Gescard
Isnora
Fired 11 times
The Brooklyn-born son of a Mexican dad and a Haitian mom, the undercover
detective fired the first shot at Bell. A 28-year-old officer with dozens of arrests to his credit, Isnora has one citation for meritorious police duty in his 51/2 years on the force.
CHARGES: second-degree manslaughter*
INDICTED
Detective Marc Cooper
Fired four times
A Brooklyn narcotics cop who has been on the force for 17 years, he is a 39-year-old father of three school-age daughters and active in his church.
CHARGES: reckless endangerment*
INDICTED
Officer Mike Carey
Fired three times
Married to another cop and a new father, Carey, 26, was nicknamed "Aces" by a former Midtown South supervisor because he was such a go-getter. He has been on the force for
five years.
CHARGES: none
NOT CHARGED
Detective Paul Headley
Fired once
A former captain in the Army who served in Iraq in 2005, Headley, 35, has been on the force for eight years. He is married to another cop and is a father of two.
CHARGES: none.
NOT CHARGED
*According to several sources familiar with the grand jury's decision. The indictment will be unsealed Monday.
