NEW YORK -- Three police officers charged in a 50-bullet barrage that killed an unarmed groom on his wedding day appeared before a judge yesterday and had their first encounter since the shooting with the victims and their families. 
In a packed, tension-filled courtroom, the three officers stood with their hands clasped during the 20-minute hearing as they pleaded not guilty in the shooting that killed 23-year-old 
 and wounded two of his friends.
The officers fired 46 of the 50 shots. The judge set bail for the two officers who fired the most bullets and released the other without bail.
Shooting survivors Joseph Guzman, in a wheelchair, and Trent Benefield, using a crutch, attended with Nicole Paultre Bell, who was engaged to Mr. Bell and legally took his name after he died.
Queens District Attorney Richard Brown yesterday unsealed the indictment charging Detectives Michael Oliver, who fired 31 times, and Gescard Isnora, a decorated undercover officer who fired 11 times, with first-degree and second-degree manslaughter.
If convicted of the most serious charges, the detectives would receive mandatory prison time -- up to 25 years.
Oliver also was charged with endangerment for a bullet that smashed through the window of an occupied house. And a third officer, Detective Marc Cooper, was charged with a misdemeanor for a bullet that struck a train station across the street.
10-year sentence sought
FORT CAMPBELL, Ky. -- A soldier accused of ordering subordinates to kill three Iraqi detainees should be sentenced to 10 years in prison, a military jury decided yesterday.
Staff Sgt. Ray Girouard, who was found guilty Friday of negligent homicide in his court-martial, could have received up to 21 years in prison. He avoided a life sentence when he was found not guilty of premeditated murder.
Sgt. Girouard was also found guilty of obstruction of justice for lying to investigators, of conspiracy for trying to conceal the crime and of failure to obey a general order.
He was accused of telling his soldiers to release detainees they captured during the May 9 raid near Samarra, Iraq, and then shoot them as they fled. He is the last and most senior soldier from the 101st Airborne Division to face trial in the killings.
Spector jury selection
LOS ANGELES -- Jury selection began yesterday in the murder trial of legendary music producer Phil Spector -- four years after an actress who starred in a cult movie was shot to death in the foyer of his castle-like home.
Jurors will be asked to decide if Mr. Spector, 66, was responsible for the death of Lana Clarkson, 40, who was shot in the face Feb. 3, 2003.
Opening statements are to begin April 30.
Also in the nation
Warmer weather raised rescuers' hopes yesterday as they searched for a third day for a 12-year-old Boy Scout who disappeared while camping in the rugged mountains of western North Carolina. ... The cost of mailing a letter will go up on May 14. The post office governing board agreed yesterday to accept the new 41-cent rate for first class mail recommended in February by the independent Postal Regulatory Commission. To see all of the new rates, visit the U.S. Postal Service Web site at www.usps.com.
