Three police detectives learned Monday of the criminal charges in their indictment, including manslaughter for two of them, in the fatal shooting of an unarmed groom on his wedding day, a case that stoked public outrage and brought fresh accusations of excessive force against the New York Police Department.
The three officers -- Michael Oliver, Gerard  Isnora and Marc Cooper -- surrendered Monday  morning at the Queens County Courthouse. 
The indictments were coolly received by African American leaders in New York, some of whom have called the  killing further evidence of institutional racism at the NYPD.

 the 23-year-old groom, was black, as are his two friends who were wounded in the November incident. Oliver is white; Isnora and Cooper are black. Two other detectives involved in the incident were not charged; one is white and the other is black.
"It falls short of what we want," the Rev. Al Sharpton said at a news conference, standing side by side with the two wounded men and Bell's fiancee. "Clearly, all five officers should be charged; all officers acted in concert."
After three days of deliberations following nearly two months of hearing evidence, the grand jury indicted Oliver, who fired 31 shots, and Isnora, who fired 11 times, on charges of first-degree and second-degree manslaughter, Queens District Attorney Richard Brown said Monday. The indictment was handed up Friday and unsealed Monday. The charges are classified as violent felonies and carry mandated prison time if the men are convicted. Cooper, who fired four shots, faces lesser misdemeanor charges of reckless endangerment.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg (R) said Monday that those officers not indicted will face internal police investigations and that the incident has already led the NYPD to "rightly examine several aspects of police operations," including undercover work and "contagious shooting" by multiple officers. But the upcoming trials, observers said, are nevertheless likely to open fresh wounds for this city.
Witnesses and the two wounded men, Joseph Guzman, 31, and Trent Benefield, 23, have told local media that they and Bell were fired upon outside the Kalua Cabaret club in Queens, where Bell's bachelor party had just ended. All three men were unarmed. As they were leaving in their car, they have said, they mistook the plainclothes officer who tried to stop them as a friend of men in the club with whom they had argued. Fearing the man might have a gun, they have said, they tried to speed away.
The police officers involved have said they thought that  the men were trying to run down the officer, and acted accordingly.
"We are outraged that police officers are being charged for actions taken in the line of duty," said Paul Martin, Cooper's attorney. "This just isn't right."
But the overwhelming force used against the unarmed men sparked an uproar and brought to mind past incidents, including the fatal shooting of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant, by NYPD officers in 1999. And it has put Bloomberg in the difficult position of having to balance support for his police force with public demands for justice.
On Monday, Bloomberg conceded that "some people will be disappointed in the Grand Jury's decision" but he insisted that it must be respected. "Nothing anyone can do will bring back 

"  he said in a statement. "But we can resolve to learn what lessons we can from this tragedy."
