You can dress up Al Sharpton in $2,000 suits and take him off to high-life hotspots like Nello's, but at the end of the day he's still Al Sharpton - a mean-spirited, self-aggrandizing disgrace to New York City.   
How silly to think that time might have mellowed the sweatsuited perpetrator of the Tawana Brawley fraud. How wrong to think he might have taken a lesson from his role in the Freddy's Fashion Mart arson that killed seven innocent people back in 1995.  
New York's moral conscience?  
It is to laugh.  
News of the indictments of three NYPD officers in the 

 case was hardly an hour old yesterday when Sharpton saw fit to throw fuel on this latest fire - gratuitously terming the Bell tragedy "just as ugly" as the mad, methodical massacre of two unarmed auxiliary cops Wednesday in Greenwich Village.  
Nicholas Pekearo and Eugene Marshalik were sought out and deliberately executed. It's all on videotape.  

 was part of a group of young men partying at a skeezy Queens dive that was under police investigation for alleged drug and gun violations and prostitution. Detectives opened fire when he drove his car straight at undercover cops.   
To equate the events is beyond invidious - it's obscene, even for Sharpton.  
The indictments will be opened Monday. But let's be clear: Whatever they allege, Queens DA Richard Brown is going to have a very heavy lift proving that the accused cops committed a crime.  
At least in any way that will stand up on appeal.  
As New Yorkers learned during the Amadou Diallo trial seven years ago, the law anticipates the passions that have surrounded this case - indeed, it anticipates the efforts of rabble-rousing bottom-feeders like Al Sharpton.  
That is to say, as a matter of law, police officers have an explicit right to use deadly force if they have reasonable cause to fear for their lives.  
Which is why the cops in the Diallo case wound up being acquitted on all counts.  
New York will learn on Monday what's in the indictments handed up against Detectives Gescard Isnora, the first to fire his weapon that night, after he was struck by Bell's car; Marc Cooper, who shot four times; and Michael Oliver, who fired 31 of the 50 rounds expended.  
Yes, that's a lot of bullets.  
But, as New Yorkers learned during the Diallo trial, under the law it doesn't really matter how many shots were fired.  
It's the first shot - the one fired in response to a perceived mortal threat in a split-second judgment - that counts.  
Now a jury will decide whether the cops had reasonable cause to believe their lives were being threatened.  
As in the Diallo case, we don't believe these officers should be facing charges at all - because the next time a cop in a similar situation finds himself hesitating, even for a second, for fear of possibly being hauled into court, it could well cost him his life.  
And the NYPD as a whole will suffer, too - if officers are unwilling to do their jobs correctly and with appropriate aggressiveness because they fear legal consequences.  

 death was a tragedy.  
But it wasn't a crime.  
Shame on Al Sharpton for saying otherwise. Not that he knows what shame is. 
