To legal experts, yesterday's decision reached by a grand jury in the 

 case appeared to be a compromise between those who think the police are too quick to shoot at unarmed black men and those who saw the hail of bullets as the officers' justified efforts to protect their own lives.
  The grand jury brought manslaughter charges against two officers, according to two people with direct knowledge of the case (a third was charged with reckless endangerment, said a person involved in the case). Such charges are themselves relatively rare in police shootings, but while serious and potentially leading to prison terms, they fall far short of the maximum crimes considered, including murder. 
As rare as such indictments are, convictions of on-duty police officers are even more unusual; it has become almost cliche to note that jurors are wary of second-guessing officers' split-second life-and-death decisions.
  The officers who shot 41 times at Amadou Diallo in the vestibule of his Bronx apartment in February 1999 -- an event widely seen as more egregious than the shooting of Mr. Bell and two friends after their car twice rammed a minivan carrying police officers -- were indicted on second-degree murder charges, but were acquitted of all charges at trial. 
  Bryan Conroy, a police officer who shot Ousmane Zongo in a Chelsea warehouse in May 2003, was indicted on second-degree manslaughter charges. But a trial jury deadlocked, and a judge eventually sentenced Officer Conroy to probation on the lesser charge of criminally negligent homicide, a Class E felony less serious than the theft of a not particularly expensive car.
  Jurors' approach to police cases, lawyers said, depends on many factors, including politics and race. One lawyer who has defended officers, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear of offending black leaders or clients, said the public mood now seemed much calmer than it was after the Diallo shooting, when the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani was under fire for its aggressive policing tactics.
  ''As a general rule, depending on the borough, white people tend to be more forgiving of police use of force against black people,'' said Ronald L. Kuby, a civil rights lawyer. ''If the question is, 'How many mistakes are you willing to forgive as long as this cop keeps you safe?' the answer usually is, 'Whatever.' '' 
  Now that the indictments are known, lawyers for the three officers facing charges will probably pore over grand jury minutes in search of loopholes or missteps that could help them persuade a judge to reduce the charges. 
  Perhaps the most critical moments will be in selecting a trial jury, though many officers -- more often than civilian defendants -- opt to leave their fate to a judge.
  ''It will all depend on the skill of the lawyers in selecting a jury,'' said Mark Jay Heller, a criminal defense lawyer. ''The atmosphere today is a very negative one against law enforcement.''
  Police officers typically attend court proceedings in force to show support for their colleagues. 
  ''Now the question becomes, 'Would a reasonable police officer in that circumstance come to the same kind of decision-making?' '' said John Patten, a lawyer who represented Sean Carroll, one of the officers acquitted in the Diallo case.
  The first on-duty officer in New York convicted of homicide was Thomas Ryan in 1977. He was charged with depraved-indifference murder in the July 1975 beating death of Israel Rodriguez, a burglary suspect, in a Bronx station house. A jury convicted him of criminally negligent homicide, a far lesser charge. A judge sentenced Officer Ryan to four years in prison, but he vanished, spending two years in hiding before turning himself in in 1981, saying that he was not guilty but tired of running.
  Lawyers familiar with such proceedings said the Bell grand jury appeared to be following a blueprint laid out by the Queens district attorney, Richard A. Brown, who is regarded as a politically astute prosecutor whose preferred course is moderation. 
  They expressed surprise that the 23-member grand jury was in session for about two and a half months -- much longer than the usual week or two -- handing down indictments nearly four months after Mr. Bell was killed on Nov. 25 when the police fired 50 shots into his car outside a nightclub on his wedding day.
  Alan Vinegrad, a former United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, who was a lead prosecutor in the Abner Louima police brutality case, said intentional murder charges against the officers in the Bell case were always less likely than in Diallo. ''You could argue there was greater justification for reacting in some way,'' he said. 
  Mr. Vinegrad also said police shootings tended to defy the cynical adage that a prosecutor can get grand jurors to indict a ham sandwich. ''They tend to scrutinize those cases more carefully, because they are so counterintuitive,'' he said.
  One lawyer said the grand jury almost seemed to be counting the shots fired in making its decisions, with those who fired the fewest considered reasonable while those who shot first (Detective Gescard F. Isnora) and most (Detective Michael Oliver) facing more serious charges than Detective Marc Cooper, who fired four times. Detective Paul Headley, who fired once, and Officer Michael Carey, who fired three times, were not indicted.
  ''It's all about shots,'' said Stephen C. Worth, Officer Carey's lawyer.
  Reckless manslaughter carries a maximum penalty of five to 15 years. Mr. Kuby said it is the equivalent, in legal terms, of getting behind the wheel of a car knowing the brakes are shot, or driving while intoxicated -- which is not viewed the same way as someone who intentionally kills another human being.
