THREE DETECTIVES at the center of the 
 shooting stand indicted today after a tortuous two-month investigation that held the city in suspense.
Sources told the Daily News that two face second-degree manslaughter charges while another was hit with reckless endangerment in the notorious 50-shot barrage that took the life of Bell, just hours before he was to be married, and injured two others. All were unarmed.
The Queens grand jury's decision - capping an investigation that heard testimony from more than 50 witnesses, including all five cops involved - was met with a mixture of shock, disappointment and grim determination, from all sides. 
On behalf of the victims, the Rev. Al Sharpton vowed that Bell's friends, Trent Benefield and Joseph Guzman - both injured in the police fusillade - were preparing for courtroom "warfare."
"Trent and Joe [Guzman] have to testify," Sharpton said. "They have to prepare to get on the stand and prepare for the defense lawyers. They're getting ready for warfare."
Bell's parents were described as "full of emotion" as they heard the result of the grand jury's deliberations.
For the cops, however, there was disappointment, resignation and a pledge to fight for their innocence.
Detectives Michael Oliver and Gescard Isnora were hit with manslaughter charges; Detective Marc Cooper will have to fight at least one count of reckless endangerment.
Two others - Detective Paul Headley and Officer Mike Carey - were cleared of any criminal wrongdoing.
Oliver, 35, fired 31 shots into Bell's car on Nov. 25, including the two that killed the 23-year-old groom-to-be as he and his friends left Kalua Cabaret, a strip club in Jamaica, Queens.
Isnora, 28, started the shooting and fired 11 shots. Cooper, 39, fired four.
The indictment will be unsealed Monday, and the three officers are expected to surrender and prepare for an arraignment that day.
The five cops were part of a team conducting undercover operations at Kalua Cabaret, where Bell was having his bachelor party.
Isnora told investigators he saw a dispute between two groups and heard a man later identified as Guzman ask for a gun, according to a police report.
He followed the group and saw them enter Bell's 1999 Nissan Altima. All five officers closed in as Isnora identified himself, he told investigators.
But he was clipped by the car and said he saw Guzman go for a weapon when he began firing his 9-mm. pistol at the group.
Legal experts predicted that if anyone was going to be indicted it would be Isnora, who fired first, and Oliver, who fired 31 times and reloaded once. Both face as much as 15 years in prison if convicted.
The surprise was Cooper, who fired just four shots and was often grouped with Carey, who fired three times, and Headley, who fired just once.
But Cooper may have sealed his own fate when he took the stand before the grand jury last week, according to a source familiar with his testimony.
"He was nervous, and he got a little confused," the source said. "He said he didn't see where the threat was coming from and stuck his hand out and fired.
"Obviously that's reckless endangerment. He tried to go back and clarify it, but once it came out, he was stuck."
Cooper faces much less time in jail, possibly as little as a year, though it was unclear what degree of reckless endangerment the grand jury voted.
Still, the thought of officers, who among them had made hundreds of arrests and who had never before fired their weapons in the line of duty, being indicted was shocking, their representatives said.
"This is the type of case that has to be tried, there's no plea bargaining here," said Oliver's lawyer, James Culleton. "It's just the beginning. These detectives are going to stand up and fight these charges."
Mayor Bloomberg, blasted last year by police for calling the shooting "excessive," and Queens District Attorney Richard Brown had spoken to each other after the grand jury decision, but neither would offer public comment yesterday.
Insiders said lead prosecutor Charles Testagrossa and his team are hunkering down for what will likely be increased scrutiny from police, victims and community leaders as they prepare for Monday's arraignment before Queens Administrative Judge Randall Eng.
"It was a mixed bag," said one law enforcement source involved with the case, noting there is no time for relief or joy over the grand jury's decision because the trial looms.
agendar@nydailynews.com
