An undercover detective was indicted by a grand jury for manslaughter not because he fired the shot that killed groom 

 but because he fired the first shot, The Post has learned.   
The Queens grand jury agreed with the prosecution's argument that Detective Gescard Isnora should be charged with manslaughter because he was the first of the five cops to open fire outside a Queens strip joint Nov. 25, a court source said.  
By shooting at Bell and pals Trent Benefield, 23, and Joseph Guzman, 31, prosecutors say, Isnora created the situation that caused another officer, Michael Oliver, to open fire.  
Only Oliver -  who shot off 31 of the 50 bullets fired by the five cops that tragic day -  has been linked to a slug found during Bell's autopsy.  
The source said prosecutors hoped to prove that Isnora's recklessness created a situation that caused "unjustifiable risk of death" and "created the grave cause of the death."  
That is one standard for manslaughter.  
Despite the indictments' remaining sealed until tomorrow, several sources have confirmed that both Isnora and Oliver were indicted for manslaughter.  
Another officer, Marc Cooper, was indicted for reckless endangerment, which could be a felony or misdemeanor charge.  
Two other officers who fired their weapons that night do not face charges.  
Oliver angrily threatened a Post reporter who asked him a question yesterday about his indictment.  
"Step one foot, and it's 'Game over!' " yelled Oliver as he shoveled snow outside his family home in Clifton, N.J. "I'm gonna ask you nicely. I have no comment. Please leave, OK?"      
The Post also learned that the stray bullet that shattered a window on a nearby AirTrain elevated platform in Queens was fired by Cooper.  
None of the four bullets Cooper fired hit Bell, Benefield or Guzman, according to Cooper's lawyer.  
Attorney Paul Martin said Cooper, a father of four with 17 years on the job, told the grand jury that he heard cars crashing and a barrage of gunfire before he ducked to the ground and opened fire.  
Court sources said his bullet was the one captured on a dramatic video that showed a slug landing just inches from two Port Authority cops standing on the AirTrain platform. 
The charges 
*  Detective Michael Oliver, 35 -  Manslaughter Fired 31 shots, including bullet that killed 


*  Detective Marc Cooper, 39 - Reckless endangerment. Shot four bullets. 
*  Detective Gescard Isnora, 28 - Manslaughter, Fired 11 times, including the first shot on the scene 
