THE THREE cops indicted yesterday in the shooting death of 
 greeted news of the criminal charges with reactions ranging from stoicism to surprise.
Detective Gescard Isnora, who let off the first shot and 10 more in the 50-bullet barrage outside a Queens club, was charged with second-degree manslaughter, sources familiar with the grand jury's decision said.
"The undercover quite understandably is upset," said his attorney Phil Karasyk. Still, "He was stoic," the lawyer added. 
But Isnora, a Brooklyn-born cop, is eager to fight the charges.
"He is firm, and he is looking forward to his day in court," his lawyer said. "We're confident he'll be vindicated."
Detective Marc Cooper, who fired four times, was charged with reckless endangerment, sources said. He was with loved ones when he learned.
"He's with his family, explaining the situation, preparing for the surrender," Cooper's attorney, Paul Martin, said yesterday afternoon.
"He was surprised, shocked and disappointed," Martin said of the 17-year veteran narcotics detective. "It's been a tough time for him waiting for the grand jury's decision. His family is disappointed as well. But they are supporting him and standing by his side."
Detective Michael Oliver also was charged with second-degree manslaughter, according to sources. Oliver, a tall, handsome cop who is known around the Chelsea club scene as "Undercover Mike," quickly became the face of the controversial shooting after word leaked out that he had fired 31 times, reloading his gun in the process.
"I am disappointed my client was indicted," said James Culleton, Oliver's lawyer. "But it was not unexpected."
Oliver spent last night with his family, and like the other officers involved, had never fired his weapon before the Nov. 25 clash near the Kalua Cabaret.
Detective Paul Headley and Officer Mike Carey were not indicted.
"I'm very relieved," said Carey's mother, Kathleen Carey, 54, at her home in Valley Stream, L.I. "It's been a long ordeal. I love my son. I've always believed in his innocence."
His lawyer, Stephen Worth, defended Carey's actions, but said the grand jury should have refused to indict all the cops.
"I think the district attorney was overly fixated on the number of shots fired," Worth said. "They called the officers into the grand jury in the order of how many shots were fired.
"If an officer is justified in firing, then he is justified in firing until he believes the threat has ended."
It wasn't immediately clear when Headley and Carey - who like the other three officers have been on paid leave - would be allowed to return to work.
An NYPD spokesman declined to comment on their status until the indictment is unsealed Monday. A law enforcement source said it was unlikely either Carey or Headley would get their guns back and be allowed to return to the streets.
"At the very least, the officers who were not indicted will be placed on modified duty until the trial is over," the source said.
Lawyers and union officials said the indictments against the three detectives should not be viewed as an indicator of guilt.
"The level of proof needed to indict is extremely low," said Michael Palladino, president of the Detectives' Endowment Association. "As they say, they can indict a ham sandwich or even a rock."
Palladino suggested the indictment could make cops less aggressive or effective.
"The message being sent by these indictments will have a chilling effect not only on New York City detectives, and New York City police, but law enforcement across the country . . .," Palladino said. "The message is being sent now that even though you are acting in good faith, there is no room, no margin for error."
"No officer wants to be the next Mike Oliver or Marc Cooper," he said.
agendar@nydailynews.com
Graphic: NOTORIOUS 7
Of the seven NYPD officers associated with the four major fatal shootings of unarmed men since 1999, only one has been found guilty of criminal charges and removed from duty. The rest still work for the city or have retired from public jobs. None of the officers was allowed to carry a gun again.
AMADOU DIALLO
Officer Kenneth Boss was among four officers who fired 41 shots at West African immigrant Amadou Diallo, 22, on Feb. 4, 1999, as Diallo reached for his wallet in the doorway of his Bronx apartment building.
All four officers were acquitted after a criminal trial. Boss works for the NYPD Emergency Service Unit and is suing to carry a gun again.
Officer Sean Carroll is retired from the police aviation unit.
Officer Richard Murphy is now a firefighter in the Bronx.
Officer Edward McMellon is now a firefighter in Brooklyn.
TIMOTHY STANSBURY
NYPD Housing Officer Richard Neri fatally shot Timothy Stansbury, 19, on Jan. 24, 2004, as the teen walked across the roof of a Brooklyn housing project.
A grand jury declined to indict Neri. He has a desk job at Patrol Borough, Brooklyn North, and is now a Patrolmen's Benevolent Association delegate.
OUSMANE ZONGO
NYPD Officer Bryan Conroy shot and killed Ousmane Zongo, 43, on May 22, 2003, during a confrontation with the African immigrant in a Manhattan storage facility.
Conroy was found guilty of criminally negligent homicide and was sentenced to five years' probation and community service. He was fired from the force but is appealing the conviction.
PATRICK DORISMOND
Detective Anthony Vasquez shot Patrick Dorismond, 26, on March 16, 2000, outside a Manhattan bar following a scuffle that broke out after a fellow undercover cop asked Dorismond where he could buy drugs.
A grand jury declined to bring criminal charges against Vasquez. His current status is not available.
