Fallen officer honored
AN ANONYMOUS donor gave $100,000 to New York University to create a scholarship in honor of Eugene Marshalik, one of the unarmed auxiliary cops gunned down by a madman in Greenwich Village last week. 
Marshalik, 19, an NYU student, had never met the donor, who approached the university recently and told officials he was "moved by Eugene's story" and "wanted to find a way to honor his memory," said NYU spokesman John Beckman.
Marshalik's family members said they were touched by the mystery man's generosity. "The person who did this wants to make a difference," said Marshalik's father, Boris. "He wants to make the world better. And that's what my son wanted to do." Kathleen Lucadamo and Rich Schapiro
Call for cop breath test
A GROUP of city and state lawmakers reviewing the controversial police killing of 
 called for a new law that would require Breathalyzer tests for cops who fire their weapons.
State Sens. Eric Adams (D-Brooklyn) and Malcolm Smith (D-Queens) told about 50 people at a forum at Medgar Evers College organized by the Tri-Level Task Force on Police Reform that they would push such a law. Brendan Brosh and Robert F. Moore
S.I. ferry case appealed
VICTIMS OF THE Staten Island ferry tragedy will have to wait even longer for their day in court after city lawyers yesterday appealed a federal judge's decision refusing to limit monetary damages in the case.
The city says its liability should be capped at $14 million which was the value of the damaged ferry, the Andrew J. Barberi. Eleven people died in the 2003 crash. John Marzulli
Junkie bank robber?
A HEROIN JUNKIE was charged yesterday with pulling three bank robberies in Brooklyn by threatening to detonate a bomb, authorities said.
In each case, Michael Contreni, 45, left behind a box that turned out to be a fake, cops said.
Contreni was picked up March 17 in midtown for allegedly driving with a suspended license and possessing crack. Earlier that day, he had held up a Commerce Bank in Brooklyn Heights, cops said. He got out of jail the next day and allegedly committed two more stickups this week, which netted about $2,800 total, according to a federal complaint. John Marzulli
