THE QUEENS COP who fired 31 shots into 
 car hunkered down with his grandmother in New Jersey yesterday as more than 100 demonstrators gathered in lower Manhattan to protest the fatal shooting. 
Two days before Detective Michael Oliver is to surrender to face manslaughter charges, he stepped outside his family's Clifton, N.J., home only to shovel snow off the driveway, his lawyer said.
Across the Hudson River, demonstrators marched from Union Square to Police Headquarters protesting the Nov. 25 shooting.
A grand jury voted Friday to indict Oliver and Detective Gescard Isnora on manslaughter charges and Detective Marc Cooper on a reckless endangerment charge in connection with the shooting that killed Bell on his wedding day. The indictments will be unsealed tomorrow.
Once the trial begins, the Rev. Al Sharpton said, the men who survived the shooting - Trent Benefield, 23, and Joseph Guzman, 31 - expect the defense to wage a campaign of character assassination against them.
"The downside is, they are going to come back . . . at these victims," Sharpton said on his radio show in Harlem. "They're going to to try to make them look like the worst people that ever lived."
The cops are expected to turn themselves in to authorities at Queens Supreme Court at 7 a.m. tomorrow.
But Michael Hardy, an attorney for Benefield and Guzman, predicted it will be at least a year before the detectives go on trial.
"The victims will try to survive in an environment where they have a target on their backs," Hardy said at Sharpton's Harlem headquarters.
Two other cops who fired their guns outside the Kalua Cabaret strip club, Detective Paul Headley and Officer Mike Carey, were not indicted - though they could face NYPD disciplinary charges.
Sharpton said Guzman, Benefield and Bell's family derived no joy from the indictments.
"The fact is there ain't no pleasure in watching people having a perp walk," he said. "It only reminds us how vulnerable we are."
He called on New Yorkers to support Guzman and Benefield - both of whom have criminal records - during the trial.
"Whatever they say about Guzman and Benefield, [they] didn't shoot anybody," he said.
"The jury needs to see that the community is outraged by the crimes that have been committed. We must have an organized court presence. . . . We must be out in full force to protect justice."
Later in Union Square, City Councilman Charles Barron (D-East New York) was much harsher and far more inflammatory.
"Don't blame me for the explosion, because we're not taking this for much longer," he said.
"If the system doesn't protect us, we have to protect ourselves from killer cops by any means necessary."
anichols@nydailynews.com
