YOU'VE read Martha Stewart's prepping special foods for gentleman friend Charles Simonyi, who's pay  ing $25 million to do a few laps in outer space. This lady is very into good dining. While he's whizzing around celestially noshing on her duck-and-gravy menus, you shouldn't think she's going without food. Even before he splits for his weekend in downtown Jupiter (must be all the hotels and motels in Delray Beach were already full, right?), she was hitting a luncheonette in the 80s on Lex. Alone. We're talking Friday, midday mealtime, like 12:30. Miss Martha took the farthest seat at the counter. And ordered a turkey club. Triple-decker. I thought only my mouth was large enough for that. Plus a lime rickey. I knew you'd want to know.     
TOMORROW night, NBC premieres the game show "Identity." A takeoff on the '60s "What's My Line," its producer Ben Silverman (who brought us "Ugly Betty") picked people like the Craig's List guy and Star magazine Editrix-in-Chief Bonnie Fuller. For some reason, Bonnie was the toughest to guess. I thought you'd maybe want to know this, too.      
TODAY we pay tribute to Naomi Campbell. Ungracious folk who took cellphones in the head have caused fashionista Naomi to mop those unchic floors of the Sanitation Department. May all turn toward Seventh Avenue and offer up a prayer. Brethren and Sistren, let us bow our heads to Our Lady of the Peplum.      
OK, so, now, Boy George. Back when he was doing community service Boy-oh-Boy was nervous. Not about the job they'd make him do, but about the outfit they'd make him wear. He fretted over the possibilities of a polyester orange jumpsuit. "I don't look good in orange," he whimpered. "And that shape is not for my build. I have short legs, which don't come off well in a jumper cut."     
Cleaning johns has surfaced in many celebrity lives. Early on Puffy Combs washed bathrooms in a Mexican restaurant. He says: "It was a job, but I tell you one thing. I was the best bathroom cleaner there ever was." . . . Hugh Grant's worst employment? Spiffing up the "lavatories at IBM in London." . . . Al Pacino? Once earned four dollars a week doing toilets in N.Y.C. . . . It was also one of Chris Tucker's entry-level employments . . . Nicole Kidman: "I was an usher at the Capital Theatre in Sydney. When the latrine broke, I had to wipe it up. Not fun. I was on hands and knees. Who knew that was in the job description?" . . . Stanley Tucci told New York magazine he worked in a Westchester summer camp's outhouses. "I was just out of school. When you're young, you can handle anything for three months."     
As his career began, Quentin Tarantino landed "production assistant" on a workout video. His first assignment was removing dog poop from a lawn where the video was shooting . . . Madonna's high school money came from cleaning houses: "I had to scrub the toilet bowls of boys I went to school with. Nothing's more degrading." . . . Jamie Kennedy on those first days in Hollywood: "I cleaned Janeane Garofalo's bathroom, which was pretty funky. I'd do one pre-scrub then one real scrub. But on her tub, three pre-scrubs and two scrubs."     
And there's Aida Turturro, who told Webster Hall curator Baird Jones: "I love to clean, to organize and get rid of disorder. I clean for hours just for fun. I worked my way through college cleaning houses. I loved it." Aida, hon, maybe you could stop over my place?     
OUR precious Constitution's Sixth Amendment entitles officers charged in the 

 shooting to a fair trial. In 1954, with a Dr. Sam Sheppard indicted for murdering his wife, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled proceedings must move to where a fair trial can be had when intense pretrial publicity suggests the accused mightn't get an honest shake.     
The Appellate Division did precisely that in the Amadou Diallo trial after Sharpton orchestrated a 40-day headline tear - blocking traffic, leading 2,000 protestors in a Wall Street march. The court found the incredibly harsh rhetoric, speeches and demonstrations rendered an untainted jury impossible. The publicity-soaked N.Y.C. venue thus changed to Albany. Upstate. Tawana Brawley country. Sharpton and his band traveled up with it. Jurists concur this played a major role in the People of the State of New York vs. cops Kenneth Boss, Sean Carroll, Edward McMellon and Richard Murphy. All four were acquitted.     
Court watchers suggest if the Rev. wants this case heard in Queens County, he should not be there.     
EAST 60th's Chinese restaurant Philippe gets a takeout order. Their delivery man can't find the East 57th Street entryway. The entrance is partially obscured by an emporium on the ground floor. Wearing his white Philippe jacket, he asks its manager is this the correct address. The manager hollers, "Get out! " This food delivery from the Chinese restaurant Philippe was going to the building that houses the Chinese restaurant Mr. Chow.     
Only in New York, kids, only in New York. 
