FORT CAMPBELL, Ky. (AP) - A military panel found a 101st Airborne soldier guilty of three counts of negligent homicide but not guilty of premeditated murder in the deaths of three Iraqi detainees.
Staff Sgt. Ray Girouard, 24, smiled as he hugged his defense lawyer and family members after the verdict was read. He faced up to life in prison had he been found guilty of premeditated murder.
The panel, which deliberated for four hours, also found Girouard guilty of obstruction of justice for lying to investigators, of conspiracy for trying to conceal the crime and of failure to obey a general order. 
Girouard could be sentenced to a maximum of 21 years in prison, said his lawyer, Anita Gorecki. He could get a maximum of three years for each negligent homicide charge, five years for the conspiracy charge, five years for obstruction of justice and two years for failure to obey a general order. The sentencing portion of the trial begins Monday.
Girouard was accused of telling his soldiers to release detainees they captured during the May 9 raid near Samarra, Iraq, and then shoot them as they fled. He is the last and most senior soldier from the 101st Airborne Division to face trial in the killings.
Girouard testified during the trial that he lied to investigators about the slayings to protect his soldiers, and that he never told two of his soldiers, Spc. William Hunsaker and Pfc. Corey Clagett, to kill the detainees.
After he discovered the slayings, Girouard said, he decided to help them fake an attack, cutting Hunsaker and punching Clagett in the face, and lying to superiors by saying his soldiers shot the detainees in self-defense.
Gorecki stressed in closing arguments Friday that Girouard did not plan the slayings and that prosecutors never provided a motive for Girouard to order the killing during the mission.
Prosecutors characterized Girouard as a liar who can't be trusted and that he only changed his story when the other soldiers agreed to make plea agreements.
Hunsaker, Clagett and another soldier, Spc. Juston Graber, have pleaded guilty to other charges. Hunsaker and Clagett testified that Girouard gave them the orders, while Graber testified that the soldiers were given an option to participate in the plan to kill the detainees.
Clagett and Hunsaker pleaded guilty to murder and each were sentenced to 18 years in prison. Graber pleaded guilty to aggravated assault for killing a wounded detainee and was sentenced to nine months.
Grand jury indicts 3 officers in NYC shooting that heightened racial tensions
AP Photos NYSC102-105, NYR108 and NYMA101-103
By PAT MILTON
Associated Press Writer
NEW YORK (AP) - Two police officers involved in a 50-bullet barrage that killed an unarmed man on his wedding day were indicted on charges of manslaughter, and a third faces a misdemeanor charge, a person familiar with the investigation said Saturday.
The officers were indicted Friday by a grand jury that had deliberated for three days over whether to bring charges in the death of 
 who was shot while leaving a bachelor party last November.
Michael Oliver, who fired 31 of the shots, and Gescard Isnora, who fired 11, face the felony manslaughter charges, according to a person who spoke with The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity because the indictment is sealed.
Marc Cooper, who fired four shots, faces the misdemeanor endangerment charge, the person said.
The indictment is to be unsealed Monday. Lawyers for the three officers said the defendants had been told to surrender then for arraignment. Prosecutors have declined to discuss the grand jury's work.
Police union officials defended the officers in the Bell shooting, arguing they were responding to reasonable suspicions that the victims were armed and dangerous. Supporters said an indictment does not necessarily lead to a conviction.
"You can indict a ham sandwich or even a rock in the grand jury," said Michael Palladino, president of the 15,000-member Detectives Endowment Association.
The grand jury declined to indict on the more serious counts of second-degree murder, or the lesser charge of criminally negligent homicide.
The decision came nearly four months after the shooting, which led to angry protests and raised questions about police tactics.
The men who were shot were black. Cooper, 39, and Isnora, 28, are also black; Oliver, 35, is white. Authorities said the other two officers not charged, one black and one white - were not charged.
