The Associated Press
NEW YORK - Three police officers surrendered Monday to face charges in a shooting that killed an unarmed groom on his wedding day and stirred outrage around the city.
The officers were accused of firing nearly 50 shots at three young men in a car outside a nightclub, killing 

 and seriously wounding two of his friends. Two other officers involved were not indicted.
The eight-count indictment charges detectives Michael Oliver, who fired 31 times, and Gescard Isnora, a decorated undercover officer who fired 11 shots, with first-degree and second-degree manslaughter, Queens District Attorney Richard Brown said Monday.
Those charges are classified as violent felonies with mandated jail time if the men are convicted. The maximum punishment for manslaughter is 25 years, Brown said.
Detective Marc Cooper, who fired four shots, faces a misdemeanor endangerment charge, Brown said. The indictment says he fired a bullet that went through the window of an occupied train station.
Oliver also was charged with endangerment in connection with a bullet that went through the window of an occupied house. All three were suspended without pay.
Two other policemen were not charged but have been placed on desk duty along with their supervisor as the NYPD continues its internal investigation.
"We are a long way from a conviction," said defense attorney Philip Karasyk, who represents Isnora.
The case renewed allegations that the NYPD is trigger-happy, as well as accusations of racism. Bell was black, as are the other victims; three of the officers are black, and two are white.
The Rev. Al Sharpton said at a news conference with the wounded men and Bell's fiance that the indictment "falls short of what we want. Clearly, all five officers should be charged; all officers acted in concert."
Mayor Michael Bloomberg acknowledged that some people would be disappointed in the grand jury's decision.
"We have to respect the result of our justice system," he said. "Although a trial will decide whether crimes were committed in this case, day in and day out the NYPD does an incredible job under very difficult circumstances."
The three policemen surrendered to the NYPD's Bureau of Internal Affairs on Monday morning, then were whisked to the Queens court complex. A phalanx of plainclothes law enforcers and family members surrounded them as they were rushed into the building for fingerprinting and processing.
Later, all three pleaded not guilty at their arraignment. Sharpton was present in the courtroom, along with shooting survivors Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield. Also attending were Bell's mother and Nicole Paultre Bell, who was engaged to Bell and legally took his name after he died.
Each officer stood, hands clasped, for the entire 20-minute hearing. Oliver and Cooper looked straight ahead; Isnora occasionally bowed his head.
State Supreme Court Justice Randall Eng set bail for Oliver and Isnora at $250,000 bond, or $100,000 cash. Cooper was released without bail.
Brown said he would oppose any attempts to get a change of venue for the trial.
