Cole bombing
A Yemeni portrayed as an al-Qaida operative and a member of a terrorist family confessed to plotting the bombings of the USS Cole and two U.S. embassies in Africa, killing hundreds, according to a Pentagon transcript of a Guantanamo Bay hearing. 
The transcript released Monday was the fourth from the hearings the military is holding in private for 14 ''high-value'' terror suspects who were kept in secret CIA prisons before they were sent to the U.S. facility in Cuba last fall.
Last week, Waleed bin Attash said he helped plan the 1998 embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania that killed more than 200, according to the transcript. He also said he helped organize the 2000 attack on the USS Cole in which suicide bombers steered an explosives-laden boat into the guided-missile destroyer, killing 17 sailors.
Three police officers surrendered Monday to face charges in a shooting that killed an unarmed groom on his wedding day and stirred outrage around the city.
The officers were accused of firing nearly 50 shots at three young men in a car outside a nightclub, killing 
 and seriously wounding two of his friends. Two other officers involved were not indicted.
The eight-count indictment charges detectives Michael Oliver, who fired 31 times, and Gescard Isnora, a decorated undercover officer who fired 11 shots, with first-degree and second-degree manslaughter, Queens District Attorney Richard Brown said Monday.
Detective Marc Cooper, who fired four shots, faces a misdemeanor endangerment charge, Brown said. The indictment says he fired a bullet that went through the window of an occupied train station.
All three pleaded not guilty at their arraignment.
McGRADY, N.C.
Search continues for missing Boy Scout
Warmer weather raised rescuers' hopes Monday as they searched for a third day for a 12-year-old Boy Scout who disappeared while camping with his troop in the rugged mountains of western North Carolina.
Michael Auberry vanished in the heavily wooded terrain after lunch Saturday with the other Scouts and troop leaders. Searchers found his mess kit late Saturday within a mile of the camp site, but no other sign of him, authorities said.
Temperatures fell to the 20s before dawn Monday, but sunny skies and temperatures in the 50s prevailed during the day. Overnight weather was expected to be milder, with lows in the 40s, but there was a chance of rain today.
The U.S. has granted Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad a visa, letting him travel to New York to address the U.N. Security Council as it considers sanctions against Tehran over its nuclear program.
The department has processed 39 visas for Ahmadinejad and his delegation, which includes 12 other senior Iranian officials and 26 security guards, he said. Another 33 visa requests, for airline crew and support staff, are expected to be processed shortly.
The approvals, which had been expected, were announced Monday after world powers agreed in principle to a new package of sanctions. Iran sought to speak to the council before members vote on a resolution to impose the new measures for its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment.
|-- Herald wire services
