3 officers indicted in wedding day shooting
NEW YORK - Three of the five policemen whose 50-bullet barrage killed an unarmed man on his wedding day were indicted Friday in a case that heightened racial tensions and renewed allegations that the city's officers are too fast on the trigger. 
Attorneys for officers Marc Cooper, Gerscard Isnora and Michael Oliver said their clients had been indicted, but they did not know what offenses the officers had been charged with. Grand jurors had considered charges including murder, manslaughter or criminally negligent homicide.
The three officers fired the most shots in the Nov. 25 confrontation that killed 23-year-old 
 and wounded two of his friends as they left Mr. Bell's bachelor party at a strip club in Queens.
The shooting stirred outrage around New York City and led to accusations of racism against police. Mr. Bell was black, as are two of his friends who were wounded. Officers Cooper and Isnora are black, and Officer Oliver is white.
District Attorney Richard A. Brown said only that the grand jury had reached a decision and it would be announced Monday. He gave no reason for the delay, but indictments are often kept sealed until attorneys and their clients are notified and arrangements can be made for the defendants to surrender.
JetBlue cancels most flights
NEWARK, N.J. - JetBlue canceled nearly three-fourths of all scheduled flights across the country Friday - most in the New York area - because of a winter storm on the East Coast.
Aiming to avoid criticism about persistent delays and problems after a storm last month, the discount airline had canceled about 400 of its 550 flights by mid-afternoon.
The storm was blamed for at least two deaths in traffic accidents in Pennsylvania. It also forced school cancellations throughout the Northeast and prompted some government agencies to send workers home early.
Manufacturer recalls pet food
WASHINGTON - A major manufacturer of dog and cat food sold under Wal-Mart, Safeway, Kroger and other store brands recalled 60 million containers of wet pet food Friday after reports of kidney failure and deaths.
An unknown number of cats and dogs suffered kidney failure, and about 10 died after eating the affected pet food, Menu Foods said.
Menu Foods said the brand names and lot numbers covered by the recall would be posted on its Web site - www.menufoods.com/recall - early today. Consumers with questions can call (866)463-6738.
In other news
NEW YORK'S ATTORNEY GENERAL has accused colleges across the country of taking kickbacks from student loan companies and reaping other benefits while making it harder for students to get better deals.
IT WILL COST $26.9 BILLION to build and operate the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste dump through 2023, the Energy Department said Friday in a new cost calculation.
A 15-YEAR-OLD FLORIDA GIRL who hiccuped her way through part of January and all of February is hiccuping once again. Jennifer Mee began hiccuping again Thursday morning after a nose bleed, her mother said.
- Edited from wire reportsby Jennifer Bishop
