3 officers deny guilt in fatal barrage
NEW YORK (AP) -- Three police officers charged in a 50-shot barrage that killed an unarmed bridegroom on his wedding day had their first encounter since the shooting with the victims and their families Monday in a packed courtroom. 
The three officers, who fired 46 of the 50 shots, stood staunchly, hands clasped, throughout the 20-minute hearing as they pleaded not guilty in the shooting that killed 23-year-old 
 and wounded two of his friends. The judge set bail for the two officers who fired the most shots and released the other without bail.
Shooting victims Joseph Guzman, in a wheelchair, and Trent Benefield, using a crutch, attended with Nicole Paultre Bell, who was engaged to Bell and legally took his name after he died.
Queens District Attorney Richard Brown on Monday unsealed the indictment charging Detectives Michael Oliver, who fired 31 times, and Gescard Isnora, a decorated undercover officer who fired 11 times, with first-degree and second-degree manslaughter.
The detectives would face mandatory prison time -- up to 25 years -- if they are convicted of the top charges.
Oliver also was charged with endangerment for a bullet that smashed through the window.
A third officer, Detective Marc Cooper, was charged with a misdemeanor in the case.
***
Driver in two crashes, one fatal, is sentenced
WHITE PLAINS (AP) -- A young man who killed one friend and hurt another in two car crashes while driving impaired was sentenced Monday to one to three years in prison.
Ralph Tarchine III, 19, of Bedford, had pleaded guilty to vehicular manslaughter and driving while impaired in a December crash and vehicular assault and driving while intoxicated in a January crash.
Michael Plunkett, 17, of Ridgefield, Conn., was killed in the first accident. While that was being investigated, Tarchine and a passenger were seriously injured in the second crash.
"If there was anything I could do to bring Mike back, I would do it, even if it meant dying myself," Tarchine told acting State Supreme Court Justice Richard Molea before being sentenced.
His parents wept in the gallery.
Tarchine had nearly escaped with a plea deal that would have sentenced him to just six months in the county jail and probation. But the deal outraged the victims' families, and the judge threw it out.
He gave Tarchine the chance to withdraw his guilty plea and go to trial, but Tarchine decided to accept a prison sentence.
