Three NYPD cops were indicted yesterday for firing 46 of 50 shots at three unarmed men in a car on a Queens street last year - wounding two and killing a groom just hours before his wedding.  
After three anxious days of deliberations, a Queens grand jury reached its decision against three of the five officers involved in the shooting, which sparked charges of police brutality and set back relations between the police and the black community.  
Although District Attorney Richard Brown said the grand jury's decision was sealed and would not be announced until Monday, sources and a lawyer for one of the indicted officers confirmed that the charges had been handed up.  
Detectives Michael Oliver, Marc Cooper and Gescard Isnora were indicted, according to lawyers for each of the cops.   
The charges against them were not immediately clear. The possibilities, according to the DA's office, included attempted murder, manslaughter and reckless endangerment, all felonies.  
The panel included eight blacks, seven whites, and a mix of Hispanics and Asians.  
"You can indict a ham sandwich or even a rock in the grand jury," said Michael Palladino, the president of the Detectives Endowment Association.  
Cooper, who fired four shots at Bell's car Nov. 25, was at home with his wife and family when he heard the news from his lawyer, Paul Martin.  
"He believes he acted responsibly and professionally," Martin said. "I did not think my client had any criminal responsibility."  
Officials said Isnora, who blew his cover to confront Bell and his friends after a bachelor party at a Jamaica strip club, fired 11 shots.  
Oliver reportedly unloaded 31 shots, including some after he had reloaded.  
"We're both very disappointed," said Oliver's lawyer, James Culleton. "It's a tragedy for everyone."  
"This is just the beginning of the process," said Isnora's lawyer, Philip Karasyk. "It's one thing to be in a warm room asking questions and not making split-second decisions on the street."  
The Rev. Al Sharpton, a spokesman for Bell's fiance, Nicole Paultre-Bell, was measured in his response, saying he'd wait until Monday's announcement to give a detailed press conference.  
He was joined by Trent Benefield, 23, and Joseph Guzman, 31, who were seriously wounded during the shooting.  
"Charges are not convictions," Sharpton said. "And convictions, even then, cannot bring back 

 and cannot repair the damage to Joe and Trent."  
Sharpton even invoked the memories of two auxiliary police officers who were shot to death on a Greenwich Village street Wednesday night.  
"One of the ugliest things that occurred was the killings of these auxiliary police officers," Sharpton said at his Harlem headquarters. "But it is just as ugly for the police to break the law and shoot 

"  
Benefield's mother, Denise Ford, said she'll be happier if the indictments turn into convictions.  
"We're going to leave it God's hands," she said, adding that she's "hoping for" justice.  
The 23-member panel deliberated for three days before reaching its decision. One of those days was interrupted by last-minute testimony from a janitor, who, according to sources, claimed to have seen a "fourth man" shoot at the cops and flee.  
Although detectives thought the testimony would help the officers' case, it didn't. The three indicted cops will face trial on charges that could, if they're convicted of the top counts, put them behind bars for a minimum of seven years each.  
Two other officers, Michael Carey and Paul Headley, were not charged. Headley fired one shot. Carey fired three.  
"My client feels relieved and vindicated," said Stephen Worth, Carey's lawyer.  
Department brass said the status of the five officers involved remains unchanged until Monday's official announcement.  
It is expected that the three officers indicted will turn over their badges and guns. The two officers who were not indicted could conceivably be restored to duty, sources said.  
The NYPD has marshaled extra forces to contend with any fallout from the announcements. Mayor Bloomberg said the mobilization was just a precaution.  
"Whatever the grand jury says . . . I think you will see the people of this city behaving in an exemplary manner," Bloomberg said.  
"They can be disappointed; they can express themselves . . . But nobody is going to go out and make our streets unsafe."  
Anger was beginning to boil among black leaders after the surprise witness resurrected the cop-friendly "fourth man" theory. But early reaction to the indictments in the city's black communities was mixed.  
"This is a step," said Ben Wolf, 38, a resident of the Baisley Park Gardens apartments, where Benefield lives, and where a makeshift memorial to 

 still stands.  
"I'm glad it's going down like this. We need justice. Now my kids can be safe," Wolf said. "Responsibility is very important. I teach my kids about responsibility and justice, that you can't just do something and get away with it."  
Other's felt the indictments didn't go far enough.  
"Everybody should have gotten indicted," said Felix Ebron, 49, a Harlem photographer. "It wasn't just three officers who did the shooting. I'm outraged. If it happened to him, it can also happen to me."  
Police officers throughout the city had anxiously awaited the decision. Many were disappointed.  
"I respect their decision but firmly disagree," Palladino said. "I don't think the actions of the detectives rise to a criminal level. The message will have a chilling effect not only here but throughout the country."  
One veteran officer said the charges would make police officers hesitant in dangerous situations, a delay that could cost some their lives.  
"It's a tragic state of affairs, considering they're not even paying these guys decent money to start," said the officer, a supervisor.  
Bell, 23, and his friends were on their way home from a bachelor party at a strip club in South Jamaica where an undercover cop reportedly saw someone with a gun.  
Earlier, an officer reportedly heard Guzman say, "Yo, get my gun," during an argument between Bell's party and a man outside the club. The cop called for backup, approached the friends' car, and began to unload when Bell, who was driving, began to pull away.  
One officer said he saw a passenger reach for something in his waistband. No weapons were found.  
Guzman took 16 of the 50 bullets, which left 19 holes in his body.  
"We didn't even have a pair of scissors in the car," Guzman said after he was released from the hospital.  
Additional reporting by Ikimulisa Livingston, Erin Calabrese, Rebecca Rosenberg and Philip Messing 
--- 
MICHAEL OLIVER 
* Fired the most shots, a total of 31 rounds. 
* During his 12 years on the force, Oliver, 35, racked up more than 600 arrests, several involving illegal guns. He is of Syrian and Lebanese descent. 
* "This was a split-second decision I had to make, and I did," Oliver said of the shooting, according to sources. 
MARC COOPER 
* Had never fired his weapon prior to last November's shooting, when he fired four times. 
* A churchgoing father of four, Cooper, 39, who is black, has been a cop for 17 years. 
* He worked much of his career with Manhattan South narcotics. 
* He lives with his family in The Bronx. 
GESCARD ISNORA  
* Was first cop to pull the trigger, firing 11 shots into 

 car the night of Nov. 25. 
* A six-year veteran of the force, Isnora, 28, of Haitian and Mexican descent, lives in Brooklyn with his mother. 
* Prior to joining the Club Enforcement initiative, Isnora worked in Brooklyn North narcotics. He has done dangerous undercover work. 
