THE sign in neat large letters yesterday read: "Detective Oliver 31 shots is murder."  
Councilman Charles Barron - a very articulate but bitter man who once said: "I sometimes wanna go up to some white guy and slap him in the face and say, 'This is a black thing,' " - stood nearby.   
"This is not manslaughter," Barron said outside the Queens courthouse. "This is a set-up so they will get an acquittal. This is murder."  
To listen to Barron, you'd think the five cops, white and black, under indictment in the 

 case called up each other in the morning and said, "Let's go to this sleazy bar in Jamaica and kill some bad guys." Community activist Theodora X. Kenney said: "This was murder . . . We advocate violence against those who treat us violently."  
Well, you nitwits, this was not murder. It was a tragedy of gargantuan proportions. No mother, particularly the mother of 

 can accept that, and all our hearts go out to her.  
Detective Michael Oliver perceived, and I emphasize the word perceived, that he and his comrades were under deadly fire. And in any cop's handbook, you know that under fire, you return all the fire until deadly force is removed.    
Bell's car "was still moving as shots were fired, and it struck an undercover officer twice," said Mike Palladino, president of the Detectives Endowment Association.  
"This is a bad message to all detectives, all cops. You fire once, twice, you won't get indicted. But you respond [with more bullets], and you are looking at 25 years in jail."  
It's always been the case that you don't shoot - and there are six pallbearers at your funeral. You do shoot - and you go to jail. What's the sense?     
Let me add: I never saw Charlie Barron or, for that matter, that woman called Theodora, and certainly not much of Al Sharpton, when white cop Pat Rafferty and Officer Bobby Parker, a very popular black cop, were shot down in 2004. Neither drew their guns.     
Palladino said the good news yesterday was the chance now to try the Bell case in a court of law. Until now, he said, "it has been tried by public opinion and activists. Now we'll have a chance to present our side . . . But in the meantime, it's been a bad message to cops."  
Right on, Mike. 
