A GRAND JURY has voted to indict three city police detectives in the killing of an unarmed 23-year-old black man who died in a burst of 50 police bullets outside a strip club hours before he was to be married last year. 
The jury charged two of the detectives - Gescard Isnora, an undercover officer who fired the first shot, and Michael Oliver, who fired 31 shots - with manslaughter. The third detective, Marc Cooper, who fired four shots, faces a lesser charge of reckless endangerment.
They and two other officers fired into a Nissan carrying the bridegroom, 
 and two friends during a chaotic confrontation in Jamaica, Queens, in the early hours of November 25. Neither Mr Bell nor his friends, who were both wounded, were armed, although the officers apparently believed they were.
The grand jury reached its decision on Friday after three days of deliberations and nearly two months of hearing evidence in an emotionally charged case whose stark outlines - five officers firing 50 bullets at three unarmed men who had been out celebrating - prompted an outpouring of anger in some minority communities, and widespread comparisons to the death of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African street peddler felled by 19 of 41 police officers' bullets fired at him in 1999.
The grand jurors, who dispersed into the wintry afternoon on Friday, indicted the three officers on less serious charges than the second-degree murder charges filed against the four police officers who shot Mr Diallo. All four of them were acquitted.
It was unclear whether Richard Brown, the Queens district attorney, sought the indictment of the other two officers who fired at Mr Bell, Paul Headley, 35, who fired one shot, and Michael Carey, 26, who fired three shots.
All five officers testified voluntarily before the grand jury without immunity from prosecution.
Some black leaders expressed muted optimism as news of the indictments spread late on Friday, while others said they felt the indictments did not go far enough.
The New York Times
