There was no rush to judgment in the indictments that were voted yesterday in the fatal police shooting of 
 After a painstaking investigation, a Queens grand jury charged two detectives with manslaughter and one with reckless endangerment. 
Having listened to more than 60 witnesses, including the accused, the grand jurors concluded that the detectives were horribly, criminally delinquent when they fired at the unarmed 23-year-old and his companions. No one has looked more closely at the events of that night. The decision to remand Detectives Gescard Isnora, Marc Cooper and Michael Oliver for trial must be respected - as must the grand jury's vote against charging two other cops.
From the start, it has been plain the five-member undercover team had at the very least fallen short of NYPD standards when they let loose with 50 shots in a tragic encounter with Bell outside a nightclub. Beyond that, the grand jurors were given the onerous responsibility of deciding whether the cops' conduct warranted charging them with breaking the law.
Down the road, barring guilty pleas, trial juries will be asked to determine whether the charges stand up beyond a reasonable doubt. Only then will the matter be settled - and it is important to let the process play out with the same level of care that Queens District Attorney Richard Brown and the grand jury appear to have applied thus far. Facts and the law must prevail, not passions.
There are many who believe that the accused officers are the victims of an enormous injustice. That they were simply doing their jobs under dangerous circumstances. That to charge them is to engage in unconscionable second-guessing. That a cop should not have to worry about going to jail for making a good-faith, if tragic, mistake.
There are also many who long ago concluded that all five cops are murderers. That, being cops, they automatically harbored racist sentiments when dealing with Bell, a black man - even though several of them are black themselves. That justice will be served only if all five are convicted.
Alas, the city has not heard the last of the rage that began boiling yesterday. But this is a time for cooler heads as three men, and no, not five, are held to account.
