Black radio homed in hard on the 
 indictments yesterday, with many hosts and listeners saying they didn't go far enough and doubting there will be a conviction.
Steve Harvey of WBLS (107.5 FM) started a light-hearted show from Disney World by bluntly declaring "racism" was behind Bell's November death.
Bell and two friends were in a van outside a nightclub when five police officers fired 50 shots toward it. Bell was killed, his two friends injured. The officers said they felt threatened, though all three turned out to be unarmed. 
Three of the officers were indicted yesterday on a total of eight counts up to first-degree manslaughter, which carries a maximum of 25 years in prison.
That was more than some hosts expected, but not as much as many wanted.
"This won't stop until somebody has the b---- to charge cops with murder," said James Mtume of WRKS (98.7 FM).
WRKS turned three hours of Kesha Monk's time into a special edition of its talk show "Open Line." Monk joined Mtume, Bob Pickett and Bob Slade.
Monk echoed a widespread sentiment by saying, "I just don't see how this [shooting] can be justified."
She was echoed by Denise Hill of WLIB (1190 AM), which along with sister station WBLS ran a news-and-talk special from 11 a.m. to noon.
"The number of shots," said Hill. "That's what I can't get past."
Newswoman Ann Tripp of WBLS/WLIB recalled Amadou Diallo and other cases, noting that many of those deaths ended in acquittals for the police officers involved.
"Everybody cross your fingers and pray," said Tripp.
Miss Jones of WQHT also cautioned, "These are just indictments, not convictions."
Ed Lover, morning host on WWPR (105.1 FM), asked, "How come we're the only ones who get shot?" but also asked listeners to consider the situation for police.
Noting the shooting of two auxiliary officers and gunfire outside the Garden after a basketball game, he urged citizens not to make police jobs more tense.
"Some parents need to put some boots in some butts," he said.
Egypt of WWPR said it's important for young people "not to act the fool," but added, "We have to get out of the mindset that anyone who dresses street is dangerous."
The Rev. Al Sharpton and City Councilman Charles Barron, who talked with Deepa Fernandes on WBAI (99.5 FM) before the indictments were unsealed, both called the charges inadequate.
When Mtume agreed, he had a sharp exchange with Pickett, a former judge, who explained that indictments are guided by what prosecutors feel they can make stick.
Mtume argued, as he has before, that both the justice system and black leadership need to be overhauled to push for more aggressive prosecution.
"We also need to stop focusing on the puppets and look at the puppeteers," Mtume added. "You have to change the mentality before you can change actions."
News stations WCBS-AM (880), WINS (1010 AM) and WNYC (820 AM) carried the indictment announcement live, and WNYC followed with a news special. WABC (770 AM) had a live newscast on the indictments as they were announced.
But the real problem here, said Harvey, runs deeper.
"There's a chilling message every black man feels when he is pulled over by the police," he said. "Even if it's just for a broken taillight. There's always a moment when you feel this could go wrong.
"I'm 50 years old and I still feel it."
