IT WAS a bad week for heroes and superheroes.
Last Wednesday night David Garvin, a part-time film-maker, entered a pizzeria in New York's Greenwich Village and shot one of its employees, Alfredo Romero, 15 times.
He was chased by two unarmed auxiliary police officers (volunteers who might normally direct traffic or help tourists with directions). Garvin turned around and shot and killed them both. He stood over 19-year-old Eugene Marshalik as he shot him in the back of the head. Garvin was eventually shot 56 times by full-time police officers after pointing a gun at them. 
The night before, a police officer was shot by a man in a Harlem restaurant. That man was eventually killed by police officers. And the previous weekend, an off-duty police officer shot a 21-year-old man after another off-duty officer was shot in the foot during a fight in a nightclub.
Crime in New York City has plummeted dramatically since the early 1990s, but for one week it seemed like a return to the dark, crime-ridden streets of Gotham City, where criminals rule the streets and police wage a losing battle against dark forces.
In the same week, a grand jury indicted three police officers for killing 
 They had fired 50 shots into his car as he was leaving a nightclub after his bucks night. He was due to be married that day. He was unarmed. The indictment of the police officers is rare for New York, even though they regularly shoot offenders. Juries have historically given police officers wide licence - some in the black community say far too wide - to shoot first and ask questions later. And given the ubiquity of guns, it's impossible not to feel for police officers who potentially put themselves in the line of fire every day.
One column in The New York Times cast these events in the light of the never-ending debate about race relations and policing but, to the outsider, what all these events have in common is guns. Crime may be down but the US remains a trigger-happy society. Instead of sparking a debate about gun control, such violence seems to drive more people to own a gun.
New York is one of the few parts of the US with a political orthodoxy against the free and easy ownership of guns. One of the unwritten rules of being mayor of New York is that you go to the site of a police shooting, you go to the hospital when police officers are injured, and you go to the funerals. In other words, it's hard to avoid the damage that guns do. It's what Rudy Giuliani did when he was mayor, and what Michael Bloomberg does now. When Giuliani was mayor, he campaigned for a ban on assault weapons and pointed out that in many states it was easier to get a gun licence than a driver's licence.
Bloomberg has spent much of his second term as Mayor of New York travelling the country to get the support of other big-city mayors for gun control, and suing 27 out-of-state gun dealers. New York City alleges that the dealers sold firearms illegally to undercover private investigators.
The previous Republican Congress responded to this by passing a law that prohibited local governments from using tracking data to trace the ownership of guns.
Bloomberg zeroed in on the gun laws after the murder of the two police volunteers.
"There is just a point that we have to say: 'Enough.' You can't keep losing police officers and kids," he said. "Day in and day out, it's our children getting killed. It's our police officers getting killed. It could be you and me getting killed. Somebody's got to stop this craziness."
Meanwhile, on the day of the shooting rampage in Greenwich Village, a comic book hit the streets in which Captain America was shot dead by a sniper as he was leaving a courtroom. Not even a patriotic superhero is immune to America's crazy love of guns.
Of course, his death may be short-lived, because in the comic book universe the quickest way to revive a flagging franchise is to kill off the hero, then bring them back from the dead. It's a pity you can't do that to real-life police officers.
