Alberta nixes plan for pint-size help in bars
EDMONTON (CP) - The Alberta government has changed course on a plan to allow children as young as 12 to work in bars. 
The province had told industry officials Thursday they were going to allow kids to work in the non-booze areas of bars, like in kitchens.
But the government reversed that plan after news leaked out Friday.
The Alberta Federation of Labour and the opposition NDP criticized the plan as a crass cash grab at the expense of children.
A spokesman for Ed Stelmach says the premier was also not in favour of the idea.
The change was to help the industry address critical labour shortages.
Officers indicted for wedding-day shooting
NEW YORK (AP) - A grand jury Friday indicted at least three of the five police officers whose 50-shot barrage killed an unarmed man on his wedding day, lawyers for the officers said.
It was not immediately disclosed if the other officers were also charged.
Lawyers for officers Marc Cooper, Gerscard Isnora and Michael Oliver said their clients had been indicted, but they did not know what offences the officers had been charged with.
The three officers fired the most shots - Cooper, four, Isnora, 11, and Oliver, 31 - in the confrontation that killed 23-year-old 
 and wounded two of his friends.
Isnora, 28, was "very upset," lawyer Philip Karasyk said. "But he is confident that once he has his day in court he will be vindicated."
Escort-service client list blocked by court
WASHINGTON (AP) - A U.S. federal judge ordered a former escort business owner Friday not to sell phone records and other documents that could identify her estimated 15,000 clients.
Deborah Jeane Palfrey, 50, said she planned to sell the list to a news organization to help raise money for her defence.
Palfrey of Vallejo, Calif., is charged with running an upscale escort service in the Washington area from her home for 13 years before it closed in August.
A federal indictment alleges it was a prostitution ring that yielded $2US million in assets, including cash and homes. In October, the U.S. government froze the assets after a 2-year investigation. Palfrey is suing to have the assets returned.
U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler issued a restraining order against Palfrey on Friday and ordered her not to sell any company records or assets. She set a hearing on the issue for Monday.
Zimbabwe opposition leader leaves hospital
HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP) - Zimbabwe's main opposition leader left hospital Friday, battered but defiant, pledging to "soldier on until Zimbabwe is free."
His supporters vowed to drive President Robert Mugabe from office with a campaign of civil disobedience.
Morgan Tsvangirai, head of the Movement for Democratic Change, urged the international community to maintain pressure on Mugabe's regime. And South African Nobel Peace laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu lambasted African silence about what he called the brutal treatment of democracy activists in Zimbabwe.
