THE NYPD DETECTIVE who fired the fewest shots among the three indicted in the 
 shooting may want a separate trial - away from the two cops who face manslaughter charges.
The lawyer for Detective Marc Cooper told the Daily News that he is weighing whether to make a motion to sever the trial, leaving Detectives Michael Oliver and Gescard Isnora to be tried together.
Cooper is facing only two misdemeanor counts of reckless endangerment and a year behind bars if convicted; the others face a maximum of 25 years in prison. 
"Severing the case is something we will consider," attorney Paul Martin told The News a day after the three cops were arraigned for killing an unarmed Bell and wounding two pals on Nov. 25, hours before Bell was to be married.
Cooper fired four shots that day; Oliver fired 31 bullets, reloading once, and Isnora, the undercover cop who started the fusillade, fired 11 times.
At Monday's arraignment in Queens Supreme Court, Cooper sat at the same defense table as Oliver and Isnora, but he was physically as far away from them as he could be.
Martin declined to comment on the seating arrangement, which was noted by others in the courtroom. Intentional or not, even the shooting victims' lawyers said it might be in Cooper's interest to try to legally separate his case from the others.
"Who would want to be sitting next to Oliver?" said Michael Hardy, lawyer for Bell's fiance, Nicole Paultre-Bell, and his two wounded friends, Trent Benefield and Joseph Guzman. "That's a no-brainer."
Oliver, 35, who fired the fatal shots, was seen partying lavishly the night after a grand jury voted to indict him. Both he and Isnora, 28, were released on $250,000 bail. Cooper, 39, was released without bail.
In an interview with LX.TV, a broadband television network, Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said yesterday he still had issues with the shooting.
"The central question in this incident is, 'Is this an aberration, or is this an indication of a systemic problem?' " he said. "That's what we want to find out."
The NYPD has hired the Rand Corp. to assess the department's firearms training and firearms discharge review process.
Meanwhile, lawyers for the three indicted cops weighed their next move. Martin said he won't seek a venue change and wants to try the case in Queens. Lawyers for the other two officers said they still may seek a change of venue, but legal observers say it would be much harder to do so in Queens than in the Bronx, where four cops charged with shooting and killing Amadou Diallo had their case moved to Albany in 1999 and were eventually acquitted.
"The chance of them getting the case moved is nil," said lawyer Marvyn Kornberg, who for a time represented one of the Diallo cops and said Queens judges make lawyers try to pick fair-minded jurors before even applying for a change.
"I would hate to believe we can't find 12 fair people who would decide this case solely on what's presented in the courtroom," said Oliver's lawyer James Culleton. "That said, I don't know if we can."
Before that happens, defense attorneys likely will ask to see some of the mountain of evidence prosecutors have compiled against the cops and will certainly file a motion with Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman challenging the indictment.
sshifrel@nydailynews.com
