Tomorrow's unsealing of the indictments of three detectives from the botched undercover operation that killed unarmed citizen 
 in a hail of bullets will do a world of good for New York.
The age-old tools of trial procedure - stringent rules of evidence, examination and cross-examination of witnesses before a carefully selected jury - will surely uncover the truth of what happened outside Kalua Cabaret on that tragic morning last November.
But as the lawyers, victims and defendants prepare for trial, the rest of us should take a hard look at the poor state of police-community relations in our city. 
Last week, as the grand jury convened to deliberate on possible indictments, NYPD Commissioner Kelly mobilized 1,700 extra officers and pronounced them "available if we want to deploy them" to quell potential civil unrest.
That is a sad and telling commentary on New York's supposedly hunky-dory race relations.
If everything were fine, there would be no need to order up armed platoons. And if everything's not fine, as the nervousness at One Police Plaza suggests, we should quit all the happy-talk about how police-community tensions have improved since the days of Mayor Rudy Giuliani and work at really making sure cops and law-abiding black and Latino New Yorkers feel like they are all on the same side, fighting the crooks.
One important step would be to take seriously the rising tide of complaints from citizens about hostile encounters with the police.
According to the Independent Budget Office, the Civilian Complaint Review Board received 6,358 complaints about police behavior last year, a 25% jump from 5,089 in 2003.
And the budget office says 2,080 police misconduct lawsuits were filed against the city in fiscal year 2004, an increase of 12% from the year before.
A department that famously brought crime to heel by the aggressive use of crime-incident statistics should publish maps of these complaints and lawsuits - and let precinct commanders know that reducing confrontations between cops and civilians will be a key part of the formula for advancement in the NYPD.
Another step in the right direction would be to acknowledge the beneficial, often controversial role played by community leaders like Councilman Charles Barron (D-Brooklyn) and the Revs. Herbert Daughtry and Al Sharpton.
The trio and their allies routinely get reviled as publicity-hunting rabble-rousers or worse. But street activists have a long, successful history in New York of voicing the wild, bitter frustration that bubbles and boils in inner-city neighborhoods.
Though they are never, ever thanked for it, tough-talking activists have long provided a kind of verbal, public steam release: rhetoric rather that riots. That's part of the reason why modern New York has never exploded in full-blown riots over police abuse the way cities like Los Angeles, Miami and Cincinnati have.
"I never tell people to be cool, passive or docile," Daughtry told me in the hours before the Bell grand jury completed its deliberations. "It's okay to be angry. In the face of oppression, you're supposed to be angry. I counsel righteous indignation and tell people to express it through a constructive route" like voter registration, boycotts and rallies.
All of that, plus a fair and orderly trial, will help resolve this latest questionable police killing - and maybe inspire some honest talk about how to prevent the next one.
elouis@nydailynews.com
