IT WOULD STILL be some time before the three officers indicted in the 
 police shooting would be arraigned in court, but the Rev. Al Sharpton wasn't wasting any time.
"We will not cooperate or testify in a trial outside of Queens County," he thundered.
Sharpton threatened to keep the two surviving victims in the police shooting - Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield - from testifying if the trial were moved from Queens. 
It wasn't clear if Sharpton's threat would carry any weight - or even if it's a valid threat, since no lawyer involved in the case has asked for a change of venue.
But defense lawyers have said they would consider the option, and there are those, including union officials representing the detectives, who believe that negative press coverage could prejudice a potential jury.
Changes of venue are extremely rare and are decided by a panel of Appellate Division judges, not the trial judge.
Many high-profile defendants whose cases have attracted intense coverage in the media have been tried in the county where their crimes occurred.
"I think the people of Queens could be fair," said Kenneth Thompson, the former Brooklyn federal prosecutor who led the team that tried cops accused of assaulting Abner Louima with a plunger in a Brooklyn precinct stationhouse in 1997.
"The Louima case, there were 8,000 people who marched over the Brooklyn Bridge, some holding plungers."
Nevertheless, uncooperative witnesses could pose serious problems for Queens prosecutors and force witness-stand showdowns. Reluctant witnesses could be subpoenaed, and those who didn't comply could be jailed for contempt.
"It could be a nightmare," said Thompson.
Queens District Attorney Richard Brown said he will try the three detectives in Queens. "The jury should be representative of the diversity of this county," Brown said.
One of the defense lawyers, James Culleton, represented an officer in the Amadou Diallo case, which was moved from the Bronx to Albany.
Diallo, a West African immigrant, was slain by 19 of 41 shots fired by Bronx undercover cops in 1999.
For Sharpton and other critics of the Diallo outcome, defense attorneys correctly predicted that an Albany jury would be more cop-friendly than one in the Bronx. But attorney Steven Brounstein, who represented acquitted Officer Kenneth Boss, bristles at the suggestion the defense was trying to get an edge.
"We were looking for a fair shot," said Brounstein. "You want people who can go back to their community and not have to worry when you're dealing with a tremendous amount of pretrial publicity that can affect jurors."
The formal indictment had one surprise element with legal ramifications for the upcoming trial.
The fact that Detectives Michael Oliver and Gescard Isnora were hit with first- and second-degree manslaughter charges - rather than just second-degree - means they face mandatory prison time if convicted of the top count.
Had the top count been second-degree manslaughter, the accused cops could feel secure in risking a trial and a guilty verdict - and still perhaps avoid any time behind bars, legal experts said.
But with the prospect of mandatory prison time hanging over them, there could be impetus for a possible plea deal - even though neither side has indicated they would consider one.
"I don't know if any [plea] offers were made by the attorneys," Brown said.
And if the defense attorneys request a plea deal, Sharpton would advise against it.
"We certainly would hope that they will not entertain in any way, shape or form a plea bargain in this case," he said. "This case should be brought to trial, and there ought to be a maximum prosecution and, we hope, conviction." tzambito@nydailynews.com
