The three detectives left their homes in the predawn darkness yesterday. They walked in the back entrance of the courthouse in Queens to Central Booking, where they went through a routine that must have seemed familiar: fingerprints, waiting, mug shots, more waiting, paperwork, more waiting.
  The three men had logged hundreds of arrests. But this time, they were turning themselves in.
All three pleaded not guilty to numerous charges -- including, for two of them, first- and second-degree manslaughter -- in the death of 
 a 23-year-old black man who fell in a volley of police gunfire as he was leaving a Queens nightclub early on Nov. 25, the morning of his scheduled wedding. Mr. Bell and his two friends were unarmed, though the officers apparently believed there was a gun. 
  The case has reopened wounds in a city where both crime and racial strife seemed to have abated.  
  Yesterday's proceedings, with the unsealing of an eight-count indictment, brought the case into a very public phase. 
  In court, the three detectives stood with their shoulders squared, facing the judge. In a wheelchair behind them, staring at their backs, was Joseph Guzman, who was shot multiple times in the barrage. ''R.I.P. 
'' read his hooded sweatshirt. 
  ''Today we got an indictment -- Round 1,'' said Mr. Guzman, who rose from his wheelchair to speak with reporters after the arraignment. ''We got a hard road to go. We lost somebody dear. We're going to fight all the way until we get justice.''
  Five police officers had fired into the car carrying Mr. Bell, Mr. Guzman and a third man, Trent Benefield, during a chaotic confrontation outside Club Kalua on Liverpool Street in Jamaica.
  The most serious charges are against Detective Michael Oliver, who fired 31 shots, and Detective Gescard F. Isnora, who fired 11 times. Both face counts of first- and second-degree manslaughter and second-degree reckless endangerment. Detective Oliver, 35, also faces charges of first-degree assault and second-degree endangerment; Detective Isnora, 28, faces a charge of second-degree assault. Those charges could bring a maximum sentence of 25 years.
  Detective Marc Cooper, 39, who fired four times, faces two charges of reckless endangerment, misdemeanors that carry a maximum sentence of one year. The two other officers were not indicted. Detectives Isnora and Cooper are black; Detective Oliver is white. 
  Yesterday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg urged New Yorkers to ''respect the result of our justice system.''
  Mr. Bloomberg added: ''It also needs to be said that being a police officer, as we were reminded several times last week, is a very dangerous job. And although a trial will decide whether crimes were committed in this case, day in and day out the N.Y.P.D. does an incredible job under very difficult circumstances.''
  The three detectives arrived at the courthouse in Kew Gardens at 7 a.m., then spent much of the next six hours in a stuffy room in Central Booking, where they sat for mug shots and fingerprints. James Culleton, a lawyer for Detective Oliver, called it ''a slow day, a slow process, but it's usually what happens when you surrender a client.''
  Mr. Culleton said Detective Oliver was ''very nervous.''
  ''He was very upset; these are very serious charges,'' Mr. Culleton said. 
  The wait was a somber one, said Philip E. Karasyk, who represents Detective Isnora. ''There is nothing more heart-wrenching than to a see a police officer put through the system, especially one who didn't do anything wrong,'' Mr. Karasyk said.
  By the time the three detectives entered the courtroom about 2:30 p.m., every seat was taken. On the left side of the courtroom were supporters of the officers: their families, union officials and rows of men wearing detective badges pinned to dark business suits. On the right were relatives of Mr. Bell, several holding children, wearing buttons with his photograph. One of them, George Taggart, had fixed his gaze across the courtroom, toward the door where the officers would enter.
  ''We'll get a chance to see them up close and personal,'' he said. 
  Last to file in was a caravan of a dozen people led by the Rev. Al Sharpton. Behind him was Nicole Paultre Bell, Mr. Bell's fiancee, wearing a black suit, her hair sleek and bobbed. Mr. Benefield was behind her, walking with a crutch. Mr. Guzman's wheelchair was on the aisle. 
  Finally, Justice Randall T. Eng entered the courtroom, and asked that the defendants be brought forward. 
  Lawyers for all three police officers entered their not guilty pleas to each count. As they spoke, Valerie Bell, Mr. Bell's mother, covered her face with her hands. Justice Eng set bail at $250,000 bond, or $100,000 cash, for Detectives Isnora and Oliver; their lawyers said they would post it. Detective Cooper's lawyer, Paul P. Martin, asked that his client be released on his own recognizance.
  ''He is the father of three, and his wife and children are in the audience,'' he said. Justice Eng agreed, and adjourned the case until April 11. 
  All three officers filed out through a side door, 23 minutes after they had entered. About a half-hour later, they climbed into a line of vehicles and were whisked away.
  Outside, the weather had turned colder, and Mrs. Bell held her handbag tightly. She read to reporters from a piece of notebook paper covered with handwriting. ''I miss him desperately,'' she said of her son. ''Countless times I tried to bring forth my own understanding only to be humbled by the weight of my own thoughts.''
  She added, ''This is truly one of the most devastating and challenging times of our lives.''
  Ms. Paultre Bell emerged, too, and spoke two quiet sentences. ''Today was just a baby step in this long road we have ahead of us,'' she said. ''We are here to fight, and we're going to continue to pray for justice.'' 
  The Police Department will now undertake its own investigation of the officers who were not indicted, including formal interviews with the officers and a Firearms Discharge Review Board, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said yesterday. He said the police could not investigate until the prosecutor had decided whether criminal charges were warranted.
  Mr. Kelly said that Detectives Isnora, Cooper and Oliver had been suspended without pay, and the two officers who were not indicted -- Officer Michael Carey and Detective Paul Headley -- had been placed on modified assignment, as was Lt. Gary Napoli, who was leading the team on Nov. 25. 
  Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney, said at a news conference early in the day that the grand jury proceedings were ''as thorough and complete as I've ever participated in.'' 
  His office's investigation, he said, drew in 100 witnesses and 500 separate exhibits. He said the grand jury ''acted in the most responsible and conscientious fashion,'' and noted that he could not recall a grand jury that deliberated for three days on a case, as this one did.
  ''This was a case that was, I'm sure, not easy for them to resolve,'' he said. 
  Mr. Sharpton, who met with Mr. Brown for an hour after the arraignment, told reporters afterward that he hoped to see ''an aggressive prosecution, with no plea-bargaining or harassment of witnesses.'' He said the two surviving victims, Mr. Benefield and Mr. Guzman, would not cooperate with the authorities if the trial was moved to another venue.
  ''There is no victory here,'' Mr. Sharpton said of the arraignment. ''But we hope we can get justice. Now it's time for at least these three to pay for what they did on Nov. 25, 2006.''
  Michael Palladino, the president of the Detectives Endowment Association, said defense lawyers might move for a change of venue, but had not made a decision. ''Once we put a full legal team together we'll definitely research that issue,'' he said.
  At a news conference after the proceedings, he said the manslaughter charges implied that the officers intended to kill Mr. Bell, which he called ''a chilling message to all of law enforcement.''
  ''It's a dark day for our detectives and the N.Y.P.D.,'' he said. ''However, I think it is a good day in that we can finally get involved in the process. Our defense begins today.'' 
  At 4 p.m., the detectives were gone and the courthouse had mostly emptied. Mr. Bell's family marched west, in a group of about two dozen, down Queens Boulevard. The police removed the barricades in front of the courthouse, and the last demonstrators packed up and went home.
  Behind them, a handmade sign fluttered on a tree. 
  ''Detective Cooper,'' it read. ''You took a father and a husband.''
