Not even an indictment can keep disgraced detective Michael Oliver from a party. 
The cop charged with shooting 31 of the 50 shots at unarmed groom-to-be 
 spent the night after getting charged with manslaughter enjoying a lavish $4,200 dinner at celebrity hot spot Nello.  
Oliver had an hourlong dinner at 7 p.m. yesterday with four young hotties and the man who picked up the check, Jos Garcia, Oliver's friend from Spain. 
The unmarried Oliver was particularly flirty with one foxy brunette, said sources inside the restaurant. 
He was overheard talking about the case, although he didn't appear agitated until he spotted waiting photographers and started talking testily into his cellphone. 
"I have nothing to say. I'll see what happens," he said after exiting the eatery at 62nd Street and Madison Avenue. "I have no comment. Talk to my lawyer." 
One of the women said the group was holding a birthday celebration, but didn't say for whom. 
They dined on four orders of dover sole, and two plates of pasta with truffles. The latter goes for a whopping $180 a pop. 
They washed down the fine food with five $575 bottles of Brunello di Montalcino wine, then closed the meal with a dessert of tiramisu, apple pie and sips of Frangelico. 
After Garcia settled the tab, which closed out at $4,241.50, Oliver left in a hurry, with one of the sexy table guests in tow, to avoid waiting photographers. 
Then to dodge questions about Bell's death, he ducked behind a building. 
The debonair bachelor was known as "Undercover Mike" during his days probing the Chelsea club scene as the member of an NYPD Vice Squad cracking down on nightlife crime. 
One source said that throughout the grand-jury proceedings, Oliver was seen partying at Chelsea club Cain on West 27th Street. He was apparently dating one of the bar's hostesses.     
Additional reporting by Leela De Kretser and Michael Scholl 
FANTASTIC FEAST 
The meal at Nello included: 
* Five bottles of Brunello di Montalcino wine at $575 each 
* Four order of pasta with truffles at $180 each 
* Four orders of dover sole at $65 each 
* Other delights such as Frangelico liqueur, tiramisu and apple pie  
TOTAL BILL: 
$4,241.50 
