Three New York City detectives were indicted Friday in connection with the November death of 
 in a 50-shot police barrage near a strip club, the officers' attorneys said. 
Queens District Attorney Richard Brown would not disclose the results of the grand jury's work, setting a news conference for Monday.
But as lawyers for three of the five officers who fired at Bell's car were contacted about surrendering their clients Monday at the Queens County Courthouse, word circulated that indictments had been handed up against detectives Gescard Isnora, Marc Cooper and Michael Oliver.
Sources said the grand jury had voted charges of second-degree manslaughter and reckless endangerment, but it was not clear which charges applied to which detective. It was not clear whether the panel had voted for a charge of first-degree or second-degree reckless endangerment.
Second-degree manslaughter, upon conviction, carries a sentence of up to 15 years in prison. Reckless endangerment is punishable by up to seven years in prison for first-degree, or up to 12 months in jail for second degree.
Attorney Phil Karasyk said that Isnora, who was the first officer to shoot at Bell's car and who fired 11 times, was charged. Defense attorney James Culleton confirmed that Oliver, who fired 31 shots, had been charged. Paul Martin, who represents Cooper, confirmed his client's indictment. Cooper fired four times.
Attorney Steven Worth said that his client, Officer Michael Carey, was not charged. Lawyers for Paul Headley, who fired once and was not indicted, did not return telephone calls seeking comment.
Bell, 23, was killed and two of his friends were seriously wounded in the Nov. 25 shooting near Kalua Cabaret, where Bell -- who was to be married later that day -- celebrated his bachelor party. The three men were unarmed, and no gun was found at the scene.
Police have maintained that they believed one of the men with Bell had a gun.
Karasyk said Isnora was disappointed by the indictment, but ''he's stoic. He's firm and he's looking very forward to his day in court.''
Culleton was unequivocal in his reaction. ''There was no crime committed,'' he said. ''There certainly will be no conviction, in my opinion.''
''My client is disappointed,'' Martin said of his client, Cooper.
Worth reiterated that none of the defense attorneys had been told what charges their clients face.
The secret panel began considering evidence Jan. 22 and heard testimony from more than 60 witnesses.
Reaction from around the city was swift.
''We've been battling since November 25th. Today is a major step in that battle. Who prevails, time will tell. We only ask that the law be abided by,'' said the Rev. Al Sharpton, who has been a spokesman for Bell's family and the two men wounded in the shooting, Trent Benefield, 23, and Joseph Guzman, 31.
''These charges, if they are true, those are cases that should be prosecuted and get a conviction,'' said Rep. Gregory Meeks, D-N.Y. ''That's what this is all about.''
|
Distributed by the Los Angeles Times-Washington Post News Service
