It is up to the courts now to decide the fate of the three city detectives who were indicted in the death of an unarmed black man in Queens. 
  But another complicated question, one that is unlikely to be fully answered for months, is what the Police Department will do with them, as well with the two other officers who were involved in the fatal shooting but not criminally charged.
On Friday, according to union officials and defense lawyers, a grand jury voted to criminally charge detectives Gescard F. Isnora, Michael Oliver and Marc Cooper in the shooting of 
 who died in a storm of 50 police bullets hours before his wedding in November. The indictment will be unsealed tomorrow. Detectives Isnora and Oliver were charged with manslaughter, people with knowledge of the decision said, and Detective Cooper was charged with reckless endangerment.  
  After the shooting, which strained relations between the department and minority communities, all five officers were put on paid leave and had their guns taken away. To defuse critics who demanded that the officers be fired, the department commissioned the RAND Corporation, a nonprofit organization, to independently review its gun training and firearm use. 
  Police officials have refused to immediately disclose what action they will take with the officers. But, in the short term, department stipulations are clear. Because they are criminally charged, the detectives face 30-day suspensions without pay and must surrender their badges. Then they will be put on paid desk jobs, pending the outcome of the trial. 
  After that, the department has a range of options: some mandated by police guidelines and state laws; others that will be shaped by what the department's own investigations yield, as well as by how the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, decides to proceed.
  If the detectives are found guilty of felonies, state law requires that they immediately be fired. 
  But even if the detectives are acquitted, it seems unlikely that their careers will ever be the same, if earlier cases provide any guide. The officers could lose vacation days, be reassigned to endless desk jobs without their guns, or be even fired. 
  ''There's a very significant range of formal and informal sanctions,'' said Eugene O'Donnell, a professor of police studies at John Jay School of Criminal Justice. ''At the top end, there's criminal conviction with incarceration, which is unlikely,'' he said, explaining that prosecutors often have trouble proving criminal intent when the police shoot someone.
  ''Equally unlikely is that they'll ever be back in front-line enforcement,'' he added.
  Take the case of Amadou Diallo, the unarmed West African immigrant killed by 19 of the 41 bullets fired at him by four officers in 1999. All four officers were indicted but later acquitted. After an internal investigation, the police commissioner, Bernard B. Kerik, decided not to take disciplinary action against the officers. Still, none were given back their guns. 
  Two officers left for the Fire Department, a third retired, and the fourth, Kenneth Boss, recently sued in an effort to be moved from a desk job back to active duty. 
  If acquitted, the three detectives indicted in the Bell shooting could still lose their jobs if police officials determine that the shooting violated the department's guidelines. In 1996, Officer Francis X. Livoti was acquitted of criminally negligent homicide in the 1994 death of Anthony Baez. The police commissioner, Howard Safir, decided to fire Officer Livoti nonetheless, after it was determined at a departmental hearing that he used an illegal choke to subdue Mr. Baez. (Mr. Livoti was later sentenced by a federal court to seven-and-a-half years in prison for violating Mr. Baez's civil rights).
  ''If you're not found guilty, the department can still internally prosecute them,'' said Rae Koshetz, former deputy police commissioner for trials, and now a lawyer who represents Mr. Boss. ''The standard of proof is different; it's easier to find wrongdoing. So yeah, they can be fired.''
  And the two officers who fired at Mr. Bell's car but were not indicted, Officer Michael Carey and Detective Paul Headley, are not immune from disciplinary action, experts said. 
  ''Even if the grand jury decides not to indict, that does not mean that it was an appropriate use of deadly force,'' said Joel Berger, who monitored matters of police conduct as an executive in the city's Law Department from 1988 to 1996.
  Still, the exact fate awaiting any of the officers is impossible to predict. The department's own investigation of the shooting is not likely to conclude until after the detectives' criminal trial ends.
