The grand jurors who voted indictments in the 50-shot police killing proved capable of making delicate and difficult legal distinctions - a fact that became even clearer yesterday with the unsealing of charges against three cops. 
In judging that Detectives Gescard Isnora and Michael Oliver ought to stand trial for manslaughter, the panel chose not to stretch grossly delinquent police conduct into a murder accusation that might have been impossible to prove beyond a reasonable doubt. Instead, the grand jury ordered Isnora and Oliver tried on alternative manslaughter counts, one entailing criminal intent and the other recklessness.
The charges, appropriately severe, seem designed to allow Queens District Attorney Richard Brown (photo) to proceed with the widest reasonable latitude without overreaching. For good measure, Isnora, the undercover officer who first opened fire on 
 and two companions, and Oliver, who shot 31 times, were also charged with assault for wounding Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield.
A third officer, Marc Cooper, was indicted on one count of reckless endangerment for firing a wayward shot into a nearby AirTrain station. The grand jury declined to charge two others who had fired just a handful of times between them.
Immediately and unfortunately, the case went on trial in the court of public opinion. Representing Bell's family, Guzman and Benefield, the Rev. Al Sharpton said the grand jury should have indicted all the cops to the maximum extent. Detectives' Endowment Association President Michael Palladino said the charges signaled that cops were subject to arrest for firing too many times or for simply having bad aim. Sharpton and Palladino were both wrong.
This was no runaway grand jury or whitewash panel. It took a look at a tragedy perpetrated by cops who did great harm despite good intentions. And it concluded there was reason to believe Isnora and Oliver unleashed fatal force without justification.
Brown's office has the responsibility of proving, over challenge by defense lawyers, that the grand jury was right beyond a reasonable doubt. The trial should take place in Queens. Talk swirled that the accused might seek a change of venue, arguing they could not get a fair trial in the borough. The idea is premature and unwarranted. The grand jury gave them a fair hearing. There is no reason to think that a Queens trial jury would not do the same.
