INTERNATIONAL A3-11 Russia to Hold Nuclear Fuel Until Iran Ends EnrichmentRussia has informed Iran that it will withhold nuclear fuel for the nation's nearly completed power plant in Bushehr unless Iran suspends its uranium enrichment as demanded by the United Nations Security Council, European, American and Iranian officials said. A1 Russia Mine Explosion Kills 78A methane gas explosion in a Siberian coal mine, in a region notorious for mine accidents, killed at least 78 people, and dozens were trapped underground, a local official said. A11 A Former Iraqi Leader Is HangedThe former vice president of Iraq, Taha Yassin Ramadan, was hanged shortly before dawn for his role in the killing of 148 Shiites in 1982, according to the prime minister's office.   A8Blast Hits U.S. Convoy in KabulA convoy from the United States Embassy was hit by a suicide car bomb on a busy road in Kabul, Afghanistan, killing a 14-year-old Afghan bystander and seriously wounding an American security guard in the convoy, officials said.  
 A9 Israeli Civilian Shot Near GazaAn Israeli worker for an electric utility company was wounded by a sniper near the border with the Gaza Strip, and the armed wing of Hamas claimed responsibility. It was the first attack since a shaky cease-fire went into effect in November. A3 Detainee Claims Abuse by U.S.David Hicks, the first detainee to be formally charged under the new military tribunal rules at Guantanamo Bay, said in a court document that while in American custody he was beaten several times during interrogations and witnessed the abuse of other prisoners. A10 NATIONAL A12-17 New E-Mail Gives Details For Attorneys' DismissalsAttorney General Alberto R. Gonzales was ''extremely upset'' that his deputy told Congress that a federal prosecutor had been fired for no reason, according to e-mail released by the Justice Department.  A1 The Senate moved to revoke the authority it granted the Bush administration last year to name federal prosecutors, with Democrats accusing the administration of abusing its appointment power.   A15 U.S. Pays Doctors Owing TaxesThousands of doctors and other health professionals who participate in Medicare are delinquent in paying federal income and payroll taxes, owing more than $1.3 billion, but they continue to receive Medicare payments because the government does little to check their background, federal investigators said.  A12Immigration Divides G.O.P.Immigration, an issue that has divided Republicans in Washington for the last several years, is reverberating across the party's presidential campaign field and causing particular complications for Senator John McCain of Arizona.   A1 Debate Over Climate ReportsDemocratic lawmakers released documents that showed hundreds of instances in which a White House official who was previously an oil-industry lobbyist edited government climate reports to play up uncertainty or play down evidence of a human role in global warming.   A16 Calls to Ease Border ControlWorried about trade and tourism, several states and Canadian provinces are pressing the Department of Homeland Security to ease some restrictions planned for the increasingly tight border between the United States and Canada.   A12 NEW YORK/REGION B1-6 3 Indicted Dectectives Deny Charges in KillingThe three New York police detectives facing charges in the death of 
 an unarmed black man who was shot as he was leaving a Queens nightclub on the morning of his wedding, pleaded not guilty as their indictment was unsealed. Two are accused of manslaughter and other charges; the third is charged with reckless endangerment.  B1SCIENCE TIMES F1-8 The Building Blocks of MoralitySome biologists argue that certain social behaviors exhibited by primates are the precursors of human morality, and believe that if morality grew out of behavioral rules shaped by evolution, it is for biologists, not philosophers or theologians, to say what those rules are.  F3Health & Fitness F5 ARTS E1-10 Britain Confronts Its SlaveryWith the support of the government and a $20 million grant, national museums and community groups across Britain have begun re-examining Britain's deep engagement in the slave trade in earlier centuries and the fundamental role slavery played in forging the nation's wealth and power.   E1OBITUARIES B7John W. BackusA software developer who assembled the I.B.M. team that created Fortran, the first widely used programming language that opened the door to modern computing, he was 82.   B7BUSINESS DAY C1-11 No Class-Action Enron SuitA federal appeals panel ruled that a class-action lawsuit against investment banks over their role as advisers to Enron cannot go ahead, dealing a blow to shareholders who lost billions of dollars when the company collapsed in 2001.   C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A18-19Editorials: Students' right to free speech; statements and restatements; the disastrous Mr. Mugabe; Eleanor Randolph on a garden stored inside.Columns: Rory Stewart; Nicholas D. Kristof.Crossword E2TV Listings E9Weather D8
