Senator Specter seeking sixth term
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Republican Sen. Arlen Specter, a moderate who has often clashed with the Bush administration and his fellow GOP lawmakers, plans to seek a sixth term in 2010.
Mr. Specter, 77, will formally begin his re-election campaign April 4 at a Philadelphia fundraiser, Scott Hoeflich, a Specter spokesman, confirmed today.
Chiquita pleads guilty in terror probe
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Banana company Chiquita Brands International admitted in federal court today that, for years, it paid terrorists to protect its Colombian banana-growing operations.
The company pleaded guilty to one count of doing business with a terrorist organization. The plea is part of a deal with prosecutors that calls for a $25 million fine.
YouTube to hold video awards
NEW YORK - Lonelygirl15, OK Go and other YouTube sensations will get an opportunity to walk down a virtual red carpet.
The video-sharing Web site announced today that it will hold the first YouTube Video Awards to recognize the best-user created videos of 2006. The awards will be handed out in seven categories: most creative, most inspirational, best series, best comedy, musician of the year, best commentary and "most adorable video ever."
The nominees, picked by YouTube, are compiled in a gallery at www.youtube.com / YTAwards. YouTube community members can vote on their favorites beginning today and concluding on Friday. The winners, as chosen by the community, will be announced March 25. Each will be prominently featured on YouTube and receive a trophy, the design of which will be revealed later.
3 officers surrender in groom shooting
NEW YORK - Three police officers surrendered today to face charges in a shooting that killed an unarmed groom on his wedding day.
The policemen, Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper, are accused of firing most of the 50 shots at three young men in a car outside a nightclub, were being fingerprinted and processed this morning before their arraignment. The Nov. 25 shooting killed 
 and severely injured two of his bachelor party guests.
