NEW YORK: Two New York police officers involved in the shooting death of an unarmed black man hours before he was due to marry have been charged with manslaughter. 
The two were among five officers involved in the shooting of 
 23, gunned down in a hail of bullets last year as he was leaving a nightclub in the borough of Queens in November. He was due to be married within hours.
The two undercover detectives, Gescard Isnora, who is black, and Michael Oliver, who is white, were charged with intentional and reckless manslaughter and face up to 25 years in jail if convicted.
''The grand jury, as you know, concluded its deliberations last Friday ... It has handed up an eight-count indictment, which was sealed by law until this morning,'' Queens District Attorney Richard Brown said.
''Two of the officers charged ... have been charged with manslaughter in the first degree and in the second degree, that is to say both with intentional manslaughter and reckless manslaughter.''
A third officer indicted over the shooting, detective Marc Cooper, was charged with reckless endangerment and faces one year in jail if convicted.
The three surrendered in New York yesterday and were due in court later.
The shooting triggered anger and protests in New York, amid allegations the incident reflected racism in the New York Police Department.
Officer Isnora fired the first shot, but it is the firing of 31 shots by Officer Oliver -- an action that required him to reload his weapon -- that has angered many.
Undercover police who had been staking out the Queens nightclub fired about 50 shots at Bell and two friends, killing the bridegroom and wounding two other friends, in circumstances that remain unclear.
Investigations have hinged on conflicting reports over whether there may have been a fourth man with Bell, armed with a gun, who fled the scene.
Police were put on standby last week amid fears that a decision not to indict any of the officers would lead to civil disturbances.
Michael Palladino, head of the Detectives Endowment Association, has criticised the decision to indict the officers.
''I firmly disagree with the decision to indict these officers. I do not think the reaction of the officers rises to the level of criminality,'' he said.
