A madman walks into a pizza joint and shoots the man behind the counter at point-blank range. He runs into the Greenwich Village street and guns down two unarmed auxiliary cops, pumping six bullets into one, execution-style. That is murder.
Five brave police officers working in plainclothes in a Queens bar notorious for drugs and prostitution believe one of the men they're watching has a gun. The officers, later thinking the man and his companions are trying to run them over with a car, all fire their guns. The hail of 50 bullets leaves one unarmed man dead and two wounded. That is a horrible tragedy. 
Nixzmary Brown's stepfather ties the poor little 7-year-old to a chair and beats her for a month in their Brooklyn apartment. "I pounded her," he confessed, though he claimed he had no idea how she got the massive head injury that killed her. She was all of 36 pounds when she died. That is murder.
The shooting death of 
 should not have happened. It may have been a crime, according to the grand jury indictment of two officers for manslaughter and assault and a third for reckless endangerment. The grand jury had the option of charging the cops with murder, but it didn't.
Some cops are clearly capable of murder. John Galtieri is a former NYPD officer charged with killing his ex-wife, Jeanne Kane. He turned her into a human punching bag during their horrible marriage, beating her after her father's funeral, when she got sick and in front of their daughter. She got even in divorce court, and he allegedly flipped for a final time. As she sat in a Staten Island parking lot, waiting for her daughter and listening to love songs, police say, Galtieri pulled up in his car and shot her. He then drove around to the other side of her car and fired again. That is murder.
Because hindsight is 20-20, we know the cops who fired at Bell and his friends were wrong. But the cops, from what we know now, believed they were in a fight for their lives, and they didn't have the advantage of hindsight. As Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said yesterday, the cops "didn't set out that night to be involved in the death of an innocent man. They went out to do a good job."
Some critics, especially on black radio stations, are flatout accusing the cops of murder. Some audaciously hopeless members of the City Council have likened the black police officers involved in the case to black supervisors during slavery. Talk about your stereotypes.
The Rev. Al Sharpton is reasonable by comparison. As usual, Sharpton stirs the pot, but he also makes a point. He seems never to give cops any benefit of the doubt, even the black ones in this case. But he has a point when he wonders how one cop could empty his gun, reload and fire a total of 31 shots. That act, Sharpton says, could have brought a murder count - something he said Monday he wanted.
"Because of the reloading, I would have preferred attempted murder at least," Sharpton told me yesterday. "But I can live with what the grand jury did, I understand it."
A trial should tell us what happened that night. It should tell us what Bell and his friends were thinking, and what the cops saw and believed. Until then, it's worth remembering something that's still true, even in New York: Cops, like everybody else, are innocent until proven guilty.
mgoodwin@nydailynews.com
