THE REV. AL Sharpton said there was "no joy" in the victims' camp over the indictment of three of the five cops in the 

 case.
But at the Queens apartment complex where one of the wounded men lives, residents were sipping Moet champagne from plastic cups last night.
"We're laughing right now - but we have so much pain," said a 36-year-old tenant who joined the impromptu celebration at Baisley Park Gardens. 
At Sharpton's National Action Network headquarters in Harlem, reaction was more muted.
Bell's fiance, Nicole Paultre-Bell, stood silently with his wounded pals, Trent Benefield and Joseph Guzman.
"There is no joy, no vengeance, no party here," Sharpton declared. "We are not looking for revenge. We are looking for it to not happen again.
"The only way you make sure it doesn't happen again is you stop it, and you punish it, and you send a signal that we live in a society where laws have to be respected."
Sharpton said he took "no pleasure" in the fact that the families of Detectives Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper will have to endure a trial.
He even invoked the memory of the two auxiliary police officers executed in cold blood in Greenwich Village this week.
"One of the ugliest things that occurred was the killing of those auxiliary police the other night," he said. "But it was just as ugly for the police to break the law and shoot 

"
After word of the indictments leaked out, it was Sharpton who told Bell's fiance, whom he was to marry the day he was killed.
"Nicole was quiet and somber and reflective," he said. "Joe [Guzman] was more expressive. He was like, 'Okay, let's go.' Trent was quiet."
The lawyer for Guzman, Benefield and Paultre-Bell said they had hoped for charges against all five.
But attorney Michael Hardy said indictments for the two responsible for the most shots - Oliver, who fired 31 times, and Isnora, who fired 11 - "were nonnegotiable."
"We are encouraged by the rumors of who was indicted and what the charges are," Hardy said. "The family is more hopeful today than yesterday."
Family members, friends and neighbors were disappointed but not enraged that the two cops who fired the fewest shots - Officer Michael Carey and Detective Paul Headley - won't be charged.
"I'll take the sliding scale," said Bishop Lester Williams, who was supposed to preside at Bell's wedding.
Mostly, they sounded grateful that someone will be held accountable for Bell's death.
"A lot of people have been on edge about it," said Bishop Erskine Williams, a spokesman for Benefield and Guzman. "But I think the fever is breaking.
"I think that people are going to now regain their confidence in the criminal justice system."
They also emphasized that the grand jury action is just the first step in a long process with an uncertain ending.
"It's still not over," said Guzman's sister, Yolanda.
"It's good to see, but nothing that happens can bring Sean back and nothing can get my brother back to the way he was. He is a different man now."
That was also the sentiment at La Bella Vita catering hall, where Bell's wedding reception would have been held.
"It still hurts, and I will never forget how terrible the day Sean died was," said owner Tony Modica. "Nothing can bring him back, but today we saw the law begin to do what is right."
tconnor@nydailynews.com
