The detective indicted for reckless endangerment for his role in the 50-bullet barrage that killed groom-to-be 
 was charged because of an errant shot that struck an AirTrain platform - narrowly missing passengers, The Post has learned.   
Sources said the four rounds Marc Cooper, 39, fired during the Nov. 25 Queens shooting did not hit victims Bell, Trent Benefield or Joseph Guzman.  
"His [grand jury] testimony was clear," said Cooper's lawyer, Paul Martin. "He heard a crash, saw a barrage, crouched down, put one leg out and began firing in the direction of the threat."  
Benefield and Guzman, who were wounded in the fusillade, will be in court today to watch as Cooper is arraigned along with Detectives Michael Oliver and Gescard Isnora, both of whom are charged with manslaughter in the sensational case.  
For the first time since the shooting, "Benefield and Guzman will be facing the people who altered their lives forever," said the Rev. Al Sharpton.  
The civil-rights leader said he expects a "very charged atmosphere" in court, where he will be joined by a large group of the victims' relatives and friends.  
"We intend to maintain our dignity. We'll see how they behave," Sharpton added, referring to the heavy police presence expected both for crowd control and in support of the detectives.  
Sharpton said he was disturbed when he spotted the front page of yesterday's Post, which showed Oliver leaving celebrity hangout Nello with two women after a $4,200 dinner with pals.  
"It's a strange way to prepare for an arraignment," Sharpton said.  
The night of fine dining included five $575 bottles of wine.  
The tab was picked up by Oliver's pal Jos Garcia, a big-spending regular at the Chelsea hotspot Cain. The two met there during Oliver's visits as a customer, not while he was working undercover with the vice squad.  
"At least we know he has friends who can help him post bond," Sharpton said dryly of Oliver.  
Sources said that Oliver and Garcia - who lives in Washington, D.C. and works in finance - dined with Cain waitress Laurel Henley and another woman named Toby.  
Sources close to the Chelsea club scene said Oliver, who fired 31 of the 50 shots, spent at least three nights a week at Cain during the grand-jury proceedings. He has since been barred from the club for reasons that include not paying his bar tabs, the sources said.  
Oliver is currently dating former Cain hostess Tara Lee Borsman, who has signed a contract to work at the club's Bahamas location, Cain at the Cove, the sources said.  
Attempts to reach Oliver were unsuccessful.  
Michael Palladino, president of the Detective's Endowment Association, said he didn't appreciate Sharpton's comments.  
"I remind Sharpton that his new clients were partying into the wee hours of the morning in the club Kalua, which is nothing more than a dump overrun with guns, prostitution and drugs," Palladino said.  
"Only Sharpton in his warped mind could draw a nexus between the shooting and Officer Oliver having dinner in a legitimate establishment."  
Additional reporting by Ikimulisa Livingston, Corynne Steindler and Larry Celona    
