Attorney General Alberto Gonzales' hold on his job grew more uncertain Monday as the Senate debated removing his authority to unilaterally name U.S. attorneys and the White House said it merely hoped he would survive the tumult. White House spokesman Tony Snow declined to predict how long Gonzales would stay in his job, but reiterated President Bush's support of him. The Justice Department also planned to turn over to Congress late Monday a couple of thousand pages of new documents related to the firings. 
A high school senior's 14-foot banner proclaiming ``Bong Hits 4 Jesus'' was at the center of a Supreme Court case Monday about the extent of schools' control over student speech. If the justices conclude Joseph Frederick's homemade sign was a pro-drug message, they are likely to side with principal Deborah Morse, who suspended Frederick in 2002 when he unfurled the banner across the street from the school in Juneau, Alaska. But the court could rule for Frederick if it determines that he was, as he has contended, conducting a free-speech experiment using a nonsensical message that contained no pitch for drug use.
Three police officers surrendered Monday to face charges in a shooting that killed an unarmed groom on his wedding day and stirred outrage around the city. The officers were accused of firing nearly 50 shots at three young men in a car outside a nightclub, killing 
 and seriously wounding two of his friends. The case renewed allegations that the NYPD is trigger-happy, as well as accusations of racism. Bell was black, as are the other victims; three of the officers are black, and two are white.
Customers at Bob Moates Sport Shop are being urged to enter a gun-giveaway drawing named for New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, whose federal lawsuits against gun dealers in five states have drawn the wrath of Virginia's gun enthusiasts. Bloomberg, who has sued 27 out-of-state gun dealers, alleging they sold firearms illegally to undercover private investigators conducting a sting for New York, says the dealers holding the contest are sick.
Anderson, a town in Alaska's frozen interior that offered free land to anyone willing to put down roots, had it all spoken for within hours Monday. By Monday morning, 44 parties were waiting in line for a shot at the 26 large lots offered to the first people who applied and submitted $500 refundable deposits. Anderson has a population of 300.
Compiled from wire reports.
