By pursuing first-degree manslaughter charges against two detectives in the death of 
 prosecutors in Queens were probably influenced by what happened in the fatal shooting of Amadou Diallo, criminal law experts said yesterday.
  The four officers indicted eight years ago in the death of Mr. Diallo, an unarmed West African who was killed in a fusillade of 41 police bullets, were acquitted after having been charged with second-degree murder. Critics said at the time that the Bronx prosecutors sought overly steep charges in the case.
The Queens district attorney, Richard A. Brown, said yesterday that the Diallo case had not affected the way his office had prepared the indictment, but experts disagreed.  
  The manslaughter charges filed yesterday against Detectives Gescard F. Isnora and Michael Oliver may be easier to pursue, since prosecutors will not have to prove that the officers intended to kill Mr. Bell, who was fatally shot in his car. Instead, they may only have to prove that the officers intended to harm someone with him in the car, and that he died as a result. 
  Many defense lawyers said yesterday, however, that even the manslaughter charges might be too high a hurdle to clear, given the long history of difficulties prosecutors have had in winning convictions in police violence cases.
  It had been widely predicted that the highest charges the two detectives would face would be second-degree manslaughter or reckless endangerment; the latter is a lesser charge with a far more lenient minimum sentence and is easier to prove.
  Implicit in the charge of first-degree manslaughter is the element of intent, something that has been exceedingly hard for prosecutors to convince jurors of in previous police-involved shootings.
  ''The police officer is doing his job, he's out there, he's in plainclothes, he sees something that appears to be criminal in nature,'' said Ronald P. Fischetti, a criminal defense lawyer. ''So he intended to fire, of course. But the question is: Was there wrongfulness in the intent?''
  If officers believe they or someone else is in imminent danger, their use of deadly force is justified under the law. By charging two of the detectives with first-degree manslaughter, the grand jurors clearly reviewed the question of whether the detectives could have reasonably believed they were facing imminent threats when they fired.
  If the jury had thought they were justified in firing, ''they would not have indicted them,'' said Paul G. Chevigny, a professor of criminal law at New York University.
  The detectives also face an array of other charges, including second-degree manslaughter, assault and reckless endangerment, and as a result, a trial jury will have a variety of options. If jurors decide that the two detectives did not act with criminal intent, they may agree with prosecutors that they acted recklessly in firing so many shots.
  Indeed, Detective Oliver is accused of reloading -- taking the time to pull out one clip and reload -- and firing 31 shots in all. Detective Isnora fired 11 times.
  A third detective, Marc Cooper, was charged only with two counts of reckless endangerment, a misdemeanor, one of the counts stemming from a shot that hit a nearby AirTrain station. Detectives Oliver and Isnora were also charged with reckless endangerment, as well as first-degree assault charges in the shooting of Mr. Bell's friends, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, who both survived with serious injuries.
  ''You're talking about police officers that have but a split second to make a decision whether to use reasonable force,'' said Joseph Tacopina, a criminal defense lawyer and former assistant district attorney in Brooklyn. ''We all understand what is careless and reckless. But for a police officer it's a different equation.''
  Legal experts had predicted that Detectives Isnora and Oliver were most vulnerable to criminal charges. Several of the officers who fired later in the fusillade could argue, they reasoned, that they had believed they were being fired on. But Detective Isnora fired the first shot, and Detective Oliver, by reloading, may have caused prosecutors to question whether it was reasonable for him to perceive a threat across the entire time it took to fire 31 shots.
  Detective Isnora is likely to argue, experts said, that he cannot be guilty of manslaughter since none of his bullets actually struck Mr. Bell. Prosecutors appear to contend that he is culpable nonetheless since his shot started the gunfire that killed Mr. Bell. 
  By letting the detectives testify without immunity before the grand jury, their lawyers also departed from the defense strategy in the Diallo case, in which the officers did not testify.
  ''The defense attorneys took some gambles by putting their guys in,'' Mr. Fischetti said. ''And now they're stuck with their testimony. The district attorney knows exactly what their theory is, what they said, what they heard, and why they fired.''
  Reports of Detective Oliver enjoying a lavish $4,200 meal with friends on Madison Avenue after his indictment could also hurt his case, if trial jurors view it as an insensitive extravagance.
  Now that the indictment has been handed up, it seems certain that the defense lawyers will push for a change of venue, arguing that prospective jurors have been biased by intense news media coverage. Some experts said it was doubtful that a judge would grant the change, given the uproar after the officers were acquitted in the Diallo trial, which was moved to Albany.
  Beyond reading the charges at a news conference, Mr. Brown, the Queens district attorney, declined to elaborate on them.
  ''The interests of a fair and balanced prosecution prevent me from providing you with more information than I have already provided,'' he said. ''It deserves repeating that a grand jury does not decide whether a person has been proven guilty. That is a trial jury's job.''
