Two police officers involved in a 50-bullet barrage that killed an unarmed man on his wedding day were indicted on charges of manslaughter, and a third faces a misdemeanor charge, a person familiar with the investigation said Saturday.
The officers were indicted Friday by a grand jury that had deliberated for three days over whether to bring charges in the death of 
 who was shot while leaving a bachelor party last November.
Michael Oliver, who fired 31 of the shots, and Gescard Isnora, who fired 11, face the felony manslaughter charges, according to a person who spoke with The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity because the indictment is sealed.
Marc Cooper, who fired four shots, faces the misdemeanor endangerment charge, the person said.
The indictment is to be unsealed Monday. Lawyers for the three officers said the defendants had been told to surrender then for arraignment.
A former truck driver convicted of killing four women and dumping their mutilated bodies across California has been sentenced to death.
Before imposing the death sentence on Wayne Adam Ford on Friday, Superior Court Judge Michael Smith denied defense motions requesting a new trial or a sentence more lenient than the death sentence a jury recommended last August.
Ford, who was mostly expressionless during the hour-long hearing, was convicted last June of four counts of first-degree murder for the 1997 and 1998 killings.
Ford, 45, was arrested in November 1998 after he walked into a sheriff's station in Northern California with a woman's severed breast and told authorities it represented the "tip of the iceberg."
Pet owners were worried this weekend that the kibble in their cupboard may be deadly after the recall of millions of containers of dog and cat food sold at major retailers across North America.
Menu Foods, the Ontario-based company that produced the pet food, said Saturday it was recalling dog food sold under 46 brands and cat food sold under 37 brands including Iams, Nutro and Eukanuba. The food was distributed throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico by major retailers such as Wal-Mart, Kroger and Safeway.
An unknown number of cats and dogs had suffered kidney failure and about 10 died after eating the affected pet food, the company said.
National alarm over whether it's safe to eat lettuce and spinach has grown so great that federal officials have set a public hearing Tuesday in Oakland, Calif., to map out the government's response.
The Food and Drug Administration - responsible for making sure the nation's fresh fruits and vegetables are safe to eat - has come under fire in recent months after three back-to-back E. coli outbreaks last fall and winter sickened 350 people and killed three.
The outbreaks were traced to California's Salinas Valley - one to bagged spinach, two to lettuce. A report on the spinach outbreak in September is expected to be released soon by the FDA and California's Department of Health Services.
