SEARCH CONTINUES FOR BOY SCOUT MISSING FOR DAYS
McGRADY, N.C. - Warmer weather raised rescuers' hopes Monday as they searched for a third day for a 12-year-old Boy Scout who disappeared while camping with his troop in the mountains of western North Carolina.
Michael Auberry vanished in the heavily wooded terrain after lunch Saturday with the other Scouts and troop leaders. Searchers found his mess kit late Saturday within a mile of the camp site but no other sign of him, authorities said. 
Temperatures fell to the 20s before dawn Monday, but sunny skies and temperatures in the 50s prevailed during the day.
NYPD POLICE IN SHOOTOUT APPEAR BEFORE JUDGE
NEW YORK - Three police officers charged in a 50-bullet barrage that killed an unarmed groom on his wedding day appeared before a judge Monday and had their first encounter since the shooting with the victims and their families.
In a packed, tension-filled courtroom, the three officers stood with their hands clasped during the 20-minute hearing as they pleaded not guilty in the shooting that killed 23-year-old 
 and wounded two of his friends.
The officers fired 46 of the 50 shots. The judge set bail for the two officers who fired the most bullets and released the other without bail.
JURY RECOMMENDS 10 YEARS IN PRISON FOR SOLDIER
FORT CAMPBELL, Ky. - A soldier accused of ordering subordinates to kill three Iraqi detainees should be sentenced to 10 years in prison, a military jury said Monday.
Staff Sgt. Ray Girouard, who was found guilty Friday of negligent homicide in his court-martial, could have received up to 21 years in prison. He avoided a life sentence when he was found not guilty of premeditated murder.
The military panel also recommended a reduction in his rank, a dishonorable discharge and forfeiture of pay, with a recommendation that the money go to his wife and 4-year-old son.
STEM CELL BAN HOBBLES SCIENCE, NIH CHIEF SAYS
WASHINGTON - Lifting the ban on taxpayer funding of research on new stem cells from fertilized embryos would better serve both science and the nation, the chief of the National Institutes of Health told lawmakers Monday.
Allowing the ban to remain in place, Dr. Elias A. Zerhouni told a Senate panel, leaves his agency fighting "with one hand tied behind our back."
SPECTER PLANNING TO SEEK SIXTH TERM IN SENATE
WASHINGTON - Republican Sen. Arlen Specter, a moderate who has often clashed with the Bush administration and his fellow GOP lawmakers, said Monday he plans to seek a sixth term in 2010.
"There are a lot of important things to be done and finally after being here to acquire some seniority, I'm in a position to do that," said Specter, 77. "I'm full of energy and my wife doesn't want me home for breakfast, lunch and dinner."
SMITH CASE JUDGE ACCUSED OF SMOKING MARIJUANA
HOLLYWOOD, Fla. - Police cited Broward Circuit Judge Lawrence Korda - one of two who made decisions recently in the Anna Nicole Smith case - for smoking marijuana in a park Sunday afternoon, a police spokesman said on Monday.
Three on-duty officers who were doing physical training in Stanley Goldman Park caught the judge about 2 p.m., said Capt. Tony Rode. The judge was smoking a joint near a tree in the park, which is near Interstate 95.
SUPREME COURT PROBES LIMITS ON STUDENT SPEECH
WASHINGTON - A high school senior's 14-foot banner proclaiming "Bong Hits 4 Jesus" gave the Supreme Court a provocative prop for a lively argument Monday about the extent of schools' control over student speech.
If the justices conclude Joseph Frederick's homemade sign was a pro-drug message, they are likely to side with principal Deborah Morse.
But the court could rule for Frederick if it determines that he was, as he has contended, conducting a free-speech experiment using a nonsensical message that contained no pitch for drug use.
JURY SEARCH BEGINS IN PHIL SPECTOR MURDER TRIAL
LOS ANGELES - Jury selection began Monday in the murder trial of legendary music producer Phil Spector - four years after an actress who starred in a cult movie was shot to death in the foyer of his castlelike home.
Jurors will be asked to decide if Spector was responsible for the death of Lana Clarkson, who was shot in the face Feb. 3, 2003.
- From wire reports
