In the months since the police shooting that left 

 dead and his friends wounded outside a nightclub in Queens, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has kept up the measured, inclusionary tone that he struck from the beginning.
  As if using the actions of his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, as a reverse playbook, Mr. Bloomberg invited black leaders, including the Rev. Al Sharpton, to City Hall, traveled to meet with Queens officials at least 10 times and praised Mr. Bell's family for expressing their outrage in a constructive manner. Yesterday, he defended his early assessment of the 50 shots fired as ''excessive force,'' displaying a rare willingness by a mayor to side against the police.
While those actions have won Mr. Bloomberg plaudits for soothing tempers, many community leaders say the mayor has not adequately addressed what they see as the underlying factors in the fatal mistake: overly aggressive tactics and racial profiling by the Police Department.  
  ''It's been pretty much a clarion call from all around the city that encounters with the police are hostile,'' said City Councilman Leroy Comrie, who represents the area where Mr. Bell died. Saying that Mr. Bloomberg had not pushed the Police Department hard enough to make changes and acknowledge mistakes, he added: ''He's doing the outreach, he's doing the healing, but it's after the fact. He's patching the wound, but he's not doing the deep surgery required to keep the wound from reappearing.''
  There is some indication that the wound indeed runs deep. Both the number of police stop-and-frisks and the complaints about those stops are up sharply under Mr. Bloomberg.
  From 2002 to 2006, complaints to the Civilian Complaint Review Board rose by 66 percent overall, while complaints about stop-and-frisks, increased by roughly three to four times. As has been the case for some time, black people filed complaints at a disproportionately high rate. Police Department statistics also show a fivefold increase in the number of stop-and-frisks last year from 2002, with more than half of them involving black residents.
  City officials maintain that the race of those stopped and searched roughly parallels the race of people mentioned in reports from crime victims. 
  The most aggressive police tactics, fatal shootings, are generally down under Mr. Bloomberg, averaging 12 a year since 2002, down from an average of 25 a year during the 1990s. Still, in 2006, there were 13 fatal police shootings, up from 9 the year before, which was the lowest number since 1973, when there were 54.
  But the stop-and-frisk numbers contribute to the perception in many predominantly black neighborhoods that residents are being unfairly singled out.
  ''While it's certainly an aberration to be shot -- much less to be shot at 50 times -- the Bell shooting touches on something that is no aberration, which is the police being very aggressive with those in the black community,'' said Christopher Dunn, associate legal director of the New York Civil Liberties Union and a frequent critic of the Police Department, in explaining why the response to the shooting had been so intense.
  Such concerns have persisted in some quarters even though three of the five officers involved in Mr. Bell's shooting, and two of the three indicted for it, were black.
  To some extent, it is clear that the administration recognizes the problem. 
  Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly acknowledged the perception that the police were overly aggressive in black neighborhoods and said it was something officials needed to continue to address, despite successful efforts to increase minority representation within the department. The department, he said, has gone from 65 percent white to 55 percent white in five years, and he has recently hired a new African liaison official and a new Muslim liaison official. 
  Mr. Kelly, who attends several neighborhood meetings each week, said he was working to bolster efforts to explain how tactics like stop and frisks have helped drive down crime. At the same time, he said, the department has ''to take a look inward'' and improve training so that officers understand that stop-and-frisks, though lawful, can be intrusive and should be used ''more judiciously'' and ''perhaps with greater sensitivity.''
  ''It's a question of how we do it and where,'' he said.
  Noting that many residents of predominantly black neighborhoods want a strong police presence even as they express discomfort with some police tactics, Mr. Kelly said, ''They want crime to go down, but they don't want to be stopped and they don't want their sons to be stopped, so it's a challenge.'' 
  The department has hired a private company to examine its stop-and-frisk practices as well as incidents of so-called contagious shooting, a phenomenon at work in both the death of Mr. Bell and of Amadou Diallo, the unarmed West African street vendor who died in a blizzard of 41 police bullets in 1999. Mr. Bloomberg, after examining the stop-and-frisk data from the Police Department and the Civilian Complaint Review Board, decided to increase its budget. 
  In addition, Mr. Bloomberg has been on a listening tour of sorts, meeting and speaking with clergy members, elected officials and community leaders from across the city. Several of those leaders, meanwhile, have been formulating a response of their own, including a city, state and federal task force that plans to compile recommendations on policy and practices for the Police Department.
  ''Yes, we mourn the 

 shooting; yes, we mourn for the police and their families because this affects them, too -- but what can we bring positive out of those two negative things?'' said State Senator Malcolm A. Smith of Queens, who helped organize the group, which plans to hold the second of five hearings this Friday at Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn. 
  ''I'm going to take this to a mathematical science,'' he added. ''You know two negatives equal a positive.''
