STEPHENVILLE, Texas - Two dozen Ku Klux Klan members held a downtown rally Saturday in a usually quiet dairy community to show support for college students who threw a party that was criticized for being racist.
Three people were arrested after a scuffle broke out with counterprotesters near the end of the 90-minute rally, but no other violence was reported. The event drew about 500 bystanders who booed and held anti-hate signs.
The group chose the small town for the rally in response to a controversy two months ago at a local college. Tarleton State students held an off-campus party on Martin Luther King Jr. Day and ate fried chicken, drank malt liquor from bottles wrapped in brown paper bags, and dressed as Aunt Jemima and other black stereotypes.
The school later chastised them and held a student forum to discuss race relations and a unity rally. At least one student shown in party photos posted on the Internet later apologized. 
NATION
CLINTON PROMISES MORE COMPETENT ADMINISTRATION: Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton praised residents of Houston on Saturday for their help in responding to Hurricane Katrina and said that if elected she would lead a more competent government than the Bush administration.
"We have to have leadership again that asks us to step up and show the world who Americans are and what we can do," Clinton said during her first visit to Texas since announcing her candidacy. She met with supporters at a breakfast before speaking at the Wesley African Methodist Episcopal Church.
Criticizing the Bush administration on a range of issues, the New York senator said she would create a universal pre-kindergarten program, provide health care for all Americans and generate jobs.
BODIES OF DIVERS RECOVERED: Authorities on Saturday recovered the bodies of two divers from a sunken U.S. military ship off the Florida Keys.
The bodies of Jonathan Walsweer, 38, and Scott Stanley, whose age wasn't known, had been trapped in the USS Spiegel Grove, authorities said. The body of a third diver, Kevin Coughlin, 51, was recovered Friday.
The men, all from New Jersey, were exploring the wreck Friday and attempting to venture inside, the Monroe County Sheriff's Office said. It wasn't immediately clear how they died.
TWO NYC OFFICERS FACE MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES: Two police officers involved in a 50-bullet barrage that killed an unarmed man on his wedding day were indicted on charges of manslaughter, and a third faces a misdemeanor charge, a person familiar with the investigation said Saturday in New York.
The officers were indicted Friday by a grand jury that had deliberated for three days over whether to bring charges in the death of 

 who was shot while leaving a bachelor party last November.
Michael Oliver, who fired 31 of the shots, and Gescard Isnora, who fired 11, face the felony manslaughter charges, according to a person who spoke with The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity because the indictment is sealed.
Marc Cooper, who fired four shots, faces the misdemeanor endangerment charge, the person said. The indictment is to be unsealed Monday.
WORLD
PALESTINIAN COALITION GOVERNMENT BEGINS REIGN: Palestinians installed a new, more moderate coalition government on Saturday, in hopes of persuading the international community to end its isolation of the Palestinian Authority and lift a year of bruising sanctions.
Israel promptly announced it wouldn't deal with the coalition, because governing partners Hamas and Fatah stopped short of explicitly recognizing the Jewish state or renouncing violence, as the international community has demanded.
But the new alliance, which replaced the militantly anti-Israel government led by the Islamic Hamas, appeared to implicitly recognize Israel by calling for a Palestinian state on lands the Israelis captured in 1967.
The Bush administration found little good to say Saturday about the coalition government, which falls short of Western demands and complicates U.S. plans to revive long-stalled Israeli-Palestinian peace talks.
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said part of the platform announced Saturday is disturbing.
FORMER NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT'S PAROLE LOOSENED: A former Nicaraguan President convicted of money laundering and embezzlement was freed from the conditions of his parole and allowed to travel around the country, a move critics said Saturday was a ploy by President Daniel Ortega to weaken the opposition.
Former president Arnoldo Aleman, who acknowledged last month he spent $1.8 million in government money on jewelry and meals while seeking hurricane aid abroad in 1998, was convicted in 2003 and sentenced to a 20-year prison term. He was later granted parole.
On Friday, the National Penitentiary System loosened the condition of Aleman's parole that had limited him to the capital, allowing him to travel throughout Nicaragua. Aleman embarked on a national tour Saturday to promote what he called reconciliation in the country.
FORMER MILOSEVIC AIDE ARRESTED IN MONEY SHIFT: A key aide to late Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic has been arrested for allegedly syphoning off millions of dollars of state money and transferring it to accounts in Cyprus and elsewhere, police said Saturday.
The indictment alleges that Mihalj Kertes organized the scheme on Milosevic's orders.
Compiled by Joey Berlin from wire reportsLOS ANGELES - Cate Blanchett is in negotiations to star opposite Harrison Ford in the long-awaited fourth installment of the "Indiana Jones" series, her publicist confirmed Saturday.
"She is in negotiations, yes," publicist Lisa Kasteler told The Associated Press. She didn't elaborate.
Filming is scheduled to begin later this year, with Steven Spielberg on board to direct. The movie is being produced by "Star Wars" creator George Lucas' Lucasfilm Ltd.
Blanchett, who won a best supporting actress Oscar in 2004 for "The Aviator," starred in last year's "Notes on a Scandal" and "Babel."
1922 - Mohandas K. Gandhi was sentenced in India to six years of imprisonment for civil disobedience. He was released after serving two years.
1940 - Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini met at the Brenner Pass, where the Italian dictator agreed to join Germany's war against France and Britain.
1965 - The first spacewalk took place as Soviet cosmonaut Aleksei Leonov left his Voskhod 2 capsule, secured by a tether.
The following is a list of deaths in the area. Obituaries are on Page 6B.
Dorothy Bartlett/Topeka
Irene Baxter/Topeka
Alice Beckett/Scranton
Florence Citrynell/Louisville, Ky.
Theresa Clure/Topeka
Dorothy Davis/Bancroft
Robert Gier/Valley Falls
Arthur Godfrey/Lakeside, Calif.
Margaret Herynk/Topeka
Eldon Hill/Carthage, Mo.
William Hysten/Topeka
Janice Levier/Lady Lake, Fla.
Raymond Miller/Topeka
Lewis Moore/Topeka
Margaret Woolsey/Topeka
First Lastname/City
First Lastname/CityActor Peter Graves 81
Composer John Kander 80
Author John Updike 75
Former South African President
F.W. de Klerk 71
Singer Charley Pride 69
Singer Vanessa Williams 44
Speedskater Bonnie Blair 43
Rapper-actress Queen Latifah 37
Actor-comedian Dane Cook 35
Singer Adam Levine (Maroon 5) 28
SANTA FE, New Mexico - Former New Jersey Gov. James McGreevey, who resigned after revealing that he was gay, says culture is outpacing politics in the acceptance of homosexuality.
McGreevey, who is in Santa Fe this weekend to speak at a fundraiser for the Human Rights Alliance, called his decision to come out "one of the most painful but honest decisions of my life."
McGreevey said Friday that people must learn at an early age to be open about their sexuality.
"Hopefully, this generation will be the last generation of American youth that has to choose between their heart and their career, between love and acceptance," he said.WANT TO SUBSCRIBE?
A 7-day subscription by carrier is $13.91 + tax per month, a 6-day (Monday-Saturday) subscription by carrier is $9.45 + tax per month, a 3-day (Friday-Sunday) subscription by carrier is $8.98 + tax per month and a Sunday-only subscription is $6.48 + tax per month. Call (785) 295-1133 to subscribe or for mail rates.
*Weekend/holiday subscribers will receive delivery of The Topeka Capital-Journal on the following days: New Year's Day: Monday, Jan. 1, 2007; Martin Luther King Jr. Day: Monday, Jan. 15, 2007; Presidents Day: Monday, Feb. 19, 2007; Memorial Day: Monday, May 28, 2007; Independence Day: Wednesday, July 4, 2007; Labor Day: Monday, Sept. 3, 2007; Columbus Day: Monday, Oct. 8, 2007; Veterans Day: Sunday, Nov. 11, 2007 to be delivered Monday, Nov. 12, 2007; Thanksgiving Day: Thursday, Nov. 22, 2007; Christmas: Tuesday, Dec. 25, 2007.
Periodical-class postage paid at Topeka, KS, (USPS 633540)
Postmaster: Send address changes to Mail Subscriptions, The Topeka Capital-Journal, 616 S.E. Jefferson, Topeka, KS 66607Powerball $183 million
7-17-44-47-54-3
Power play: 3
Hot Lotto $4.19 million
1-7-15-33-39-16
Super Kansas Cash $500,000
6-15-16-19-30-10
2by2 $20,000
Red numbers: 8-10
White numbers: 17-23
Pick 3
4-3-0
