If 
 had been blessed with a rich pal to buy him $575 bottles of wine at Nello's, he would have lived to see his wedding day.
But his buddies had no more cash than he did and they celebrated his last hours of bachelorhood with $2 beers at Kalua Cabaret in Jamaica, Queens.
The events that followed after they left Kalua would never have happened outside Nello's, where there would have been no undercover cops, no 50 shots, no dead groom, no knock from inside the grand jury room door on Friday to signal the jurors had reached a decision. 
Word quickly leaked that three cops had been indicted, among them Michael Oliver, who fired 31 of the shots, including all the fatal ones. That did not stop Oliver from being out at Nello's on Saturday night.
One of the many thoughts that apparently did not enter his mind was how the dead man's fiance might feel if she learned the cop who had just been indicted for killing her intended was out partying a day later.
The fiance, Nicole Paultre-Bell, was in the fourth row in Queens Supreme Court yesterday when there came another knocking at a door, this the door leading in from the holding pen, signaling the time had come for the arraignment.
"Indictment No. 1 of 2007, Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper," the clerk announced.
Oliver was the first of the three cops to appear in the doorway, and he hesitated for just a heartbeat. He then strode inside wearing a dark suit, his sallow face looking as if the night at Nello's had left him with a more profound hangover than even the cheapest wine could inflict.
Oliver reached the end of the defense table and turned to face the judge without surveying the spectators. Paultre-Bell shifted in her seat to get a better view, and her eyes locked on the man who had killed her husband-to-be. Her gaze glimmered with something other than hate, something you could know only if you were her.
Along with all she was feeling, Paultre-Bell must have been asking herself the very question that will ultimately decide this case: What precisely in Oliver's mind prompted him to fire that many times at a carload of unarmed young men?
Was it just what the experts call contagious shooting? If so, why did some of the others fire so few times? Did Oliver keep firing because of some psychic disconnect between action and consequences, some astonishing indifference such as evidenced by the night out at Nello's?
Or maybe he was partying at Nello's out of some need to regain the good life he had begun to taste as an undercover in Manhattan clubs. Had the one-time bridge-and-tunnel kid come to imagine himself a suave man about town? Had Mr. Cool then lost his cool on a dark and scruffy street in Jamaica?
His lawyer tells us he's simply a cop who truly believed he and his partners were in mortal danger, who in other circumstances might be one of those we hail as a hero.
By more than one account, Oliver gave a good performance in his testimony before the grand jury. And a series of police-involved shootings during the final days of deliberations could only have reminded the grand jurors of the dangers our cops face every time they hit the street. A grand juror was seen going into the room on Wednesday with a Daily News headlined "COP SHOT." The juror arrived the next day with a News headlined "MASSACRE IN VILLAGE."
But 31 shots were still 31 shots, and the grand jury went ahead and indicted Oliver for manslaughter along with Isnora, the undercover who sparked the indictment by firing first, and then 10 more times. The third cop was hit only with a misdemeanor charge for his recklessness in sending a stray round into the AirTrain terminal.
At the core of the case remains the question that Paultre-Bell seemed to have no more luck than the rest of us in answering yesterday. Oliver left the courthouse free on bail and the one place he seemed sure not to be headed was Nello's.
mdaly@nydailynews.com
