Animals died in tests of suspect pet food
WASHINGTON - As many as one in sixanimals died in tests of suspect dog andcat food by the manufacturer after complaints the products were poisoning pets around the country, the government said Monday. 
A federal investigation is focusing on wheat gluten as the likely source of contamination that sparked a recall last Friday of 60 million cans and pouches of the suspect food, said Stephen F. Sundlof, the Food and Drug Administration's top veterinarian.
The ingredient, a protein source, is commonly used as filler.
Agency investigators are looking at other ingredients as well. The wet-style pet food was made by Menu Foods, an Ontario, Canada-based company.
Menu Foods told the FDA it received the first complaints of kidney failure and deaths among cats and dogs from pet owners on Feb. 20. It began new tests on Feb. 27.
During those tests, the company fed its product to 40 to 50 dogs and cats and seven animals - the mix of species was not immediately known - died, Dr. Sundlof said. The contamination appeared more deadly to cats than to dogs, he said.
Police enter pleas in death
NEW YORK - Three police officers charged in a 50-bullet barrage that killed an unarmed groom on his wedding day appeared before a judge Monday and had their first encounter since the shooting with the victims and their families.
In a packed, tension-filled courtroom, the three officers stood with their hands clasped during the 20-minute hearing as they pleaded not guilty in the shooting that killed 23-year-old 
 and wounded two of his friends.
The officers fired 46 of the 50 shots. The judge set bail for the two officers who fired the most bullets and released the other without bail.
Couple claim share of lottery
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. - A New Jersey couple claimed half of the record $390 million Mega Millions jackpot Monday and said they are retired - effective immediately.
Elaine and Harold Messner chose the cash option for the prize from the March 6 drawing in the multistate game. They will receive $116,557,083 before the 25 percent federal withholding tax.
Mr. Messner, 57, a general contractor, and his wife, who is 56, live in Cape May County, at the state's southern tip, not far from the liquor store where they purchased the winning ticket. They let a state lottery machine randomly select numbers for them.
A truck driver in Georgia already claimed the other half of the prize.
In other news
DOCTORS AND OTHER HEALTH care providers who owe the federal Treasury more than $1 billion in back taxes are still receiving government checks for treating Medicare patients, federal auditors found.
DUE PARTLY TO A SHORTAGE of federal agents and poor record-keeping, illegal immigrants under court order to be removed from the country often face unconstitutionally long detentions, an inspector general has found.
LIFTING THE BAN ON taxpayer funding of research on new stem cells from fertilized embryos would better serve both science and the nation, the chief of the National Institutes of Health told lawmakers Monday.
- Edited from wire reports by James Folker
