International
  IN RUNOFF ELECTIONS,
  A Serbian Icon Adds Her Voice
  Decades ago, Vesna Vulovic was the lone survivor of a plane bombing after plumetting more than 33,000 feet. In Serbia, she is a national heroine on par with the nation's tennis and basketball stars. She's now leveraging her considerable celebrity to campaign vigorously for the Democratic Party of President Boris Tadic, whose party trails in polls to the ultra-right Radical Party. ''I am like a cat. I have had nine lives,'' she said. ''But if nationalist forces in this country prevail, my heart will burst.''  PAGE A7
  ARGENTINE MINISTER STEPS DOWN
  Martin Lousteau, a 36-year-old economist who was trained at the London School of Economics, stepped down after less than five months as Argentina's economy minister, amid rising inflation and a long feud with farmers over tax policy. Though no reason was given for his resignation, an Argentine newspaper reported last week that he presented President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner with a plan meant to stabilize the country's economy in order to ''avoid a serious crisis.''  PAGE A6  
  national
  SOUTH DAKOTA TO CONSIDER
  Challenge to Roe v. Wade
  In 2006, a ballot measure that would have banned abortion in South Dakota was defeated after an intense and expensive battle, 56 percent to 44 percent. Now the state is revisiting the question of a ban on abortion in a proposal that is widely seen as a direct challenge to Roe v. Wade. Unlike the 2006 measure, the question being voted on by South Dakotans will include exceptions for rape, incest or issues that endanger the life and health of the child.  PAGE A10
  A COZIER PLACE TO SIT AND WAIT
  In Los Angeles, low-income residents who rely on public transportation have taken tools, technical help and a little grant money to some neighborhood bus stops to turn them into what they are calling ''community living rooms'' in an effort to ease the wait for the bus. The simple furniture they build for the rooms is generally made of wood and includes chairs and ottomans.  PAGE A10
  ATHEISM IN FOXHOLES
  After convening a group of atheists and freethinkers at Camp Speicher in Iraq, Specialist Jeremy Hall and another soldier were berated by a superior officer who told them that the charges would be filed against them and they would be barred from re-enlistment. Specialist Hall filed a lawsuit saying that his First Amendment rights were violated. The lawsuit has raised questions about the effectiveness of the military's religious guidelines.  PAGE A10
  MCCAIN IN HOSTILE TERRITORY
  John McCain just finished concluded a weeklong trip in which he traveled to places where Republicans are loath to venture. He has attended quilting sessions in Kentucky and a town-hall-style meeting at Xavier University in New Orleans. ''I want to inform you that everybody in the camp here is not a Republican,'' one participant informed him ashe was being berated by the audience. ''I got that impression,'' Mr. McCain responded.  PAGE A12
  Business
  FRESH FRUIT YEAR-ROUND,
  But at a Price
  It's now possible to get a ripe kiwi year-round thanks to the efficient global networks that transport food from all over the world. But the consequence of say, buying Argentina-grown lemons in Spain, is the amount of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide to ship it. The European Union, which imports more food than anywhere else in the world, is trying to tackle the problem by making freight-carrying flights buy permits for the pollution they generate (though sea freight may also require permits, too). ''We're really ready to have everyone reduce -- or pay in some way,'' said a European Union spokeswoman.  PAGE B1
  WACHOVIA SETTLES SUIT
  Wachovia Bank ended an 18-month investigation into its relationships with schemes that stole from thousands of victims -- many of them elderly -- by agreeing to pay $144 million. The settlement, which is the second-largest penalty ever demanded by the federal Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, was criticized by some who said that the settlement agreement did not guarantee that victims would be paid. PAGE B1 
  SHIPS SLOW TO CLEAN UP
  The shipping industry, despite producing twice as much carbon dioxide as aviation, isn't in a rush to go green despite the presence of cleaner technologies. Many ships burn heavy bunker fuel, which is called ''black yogurt'' for its consistency, and which researches say could speed up the melting of the polar ice caps and contribute to serious breathing illnesses and lung cancers.  PAGE B1
  AIRLINES SAID TO BE NEAR MERGER
  United Airlines and Continental Airlines could be one carrier by next week, according to sources. The talks between the two airlines picked up after Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines announced their $3 billion merger. Like Delta and Northwest, United and Continental hope to have regulatory approval of the deal done before President Bush leaves office, rather than face possible delays under a new administration.  PAGE B3 
  SUSPECT IN BAD TRADES FINDS JOB
  Jerome Kerviel, the suspected rogue trader who caused more than $7 billion in losses at the French banking giant Societe Generale, is out of prison and has found a new job -- as a computer consultant at a company that specializes in computer security and system development. Jean Veil, a lawyer for Societe Generale, said he was happy that Mr. Kerviel had secured employment. ''It means he will be in a position to start repaying the bank,'' Mr. Veil said.  PAGE B3  
  Shopping in Thrift Stores  B6 
  SPORTS
  BIDDING ARRIVEDERCI 
  To a Corner Soccer Bar
  ''Sports fans everywhere have that one joint where they watch Santos or Ole Miss or the Nippon Ham Fighters,'' George Vecsey writes in Sports of The Times. He had his own place for soccer, a corner bar in the Village, where he loved being a wannabe Italian. Note, here, the use of the past tense.   PAGE B13 
  GROWING PAINS
  When he was an eighth grader in 2001, Tyler Tolson's left leg was three and a half inches shorter than his right. It took a rare, arduous and painful bone-lengthening procedure that stretched his left leg to make him able to walk normally -- and to play lacrosse better than that. Now he's a junior attackman at Division III Lynchburg College and has scored 112 goals in fewer than three seasons.   PAGE B15 
  ONE LAST PENN RELAYS
  John McDonnell has been the cross-country coach at Arkansas since 1972 and also the men's track coach since 1977. Since 1984, his athletes have won N.C.A.A. team titles 19 times in indoor track, 12 times in outdoor track and 11 times in cross-country. His health is fine, he says. So why is he retiring? ''It's just time,'' he says.  PAGE B14 
  NEW YORK REPORT
  SHOOTING VERDICT SETTLES PRESENT, 
  But Detectives' Future Is Unclear
  The three New York City police detectives found not guilty in the shooting death of 

 expressed relief at a news conference. Some thanked God and their families, and one offered apologies to Mr. Bell's family and said, ''This is the start of my life back.'' But it is not clear what life, or their jobs, holds for them next.   PAGE B10
  A VOW TO KEEP PUSHING
  Some of 

 relatives and their supporters visited Mr. Bell's grave after the not-guilty verdict for three detectives accused in his death. Some talked of anger, boycotts, civil disobedience. Mostly, they talked about not letting the verdict divert them. ''We're not going to give up,'' said the father of the woman Mr. Bell was to have married. ''We're going to keep pushing forward.''   PAGE B9
  Arts
  WELL, THEIR LAWYERS SEE  THE GLASS AS HALF-FULL
  The best-selling self-help book ''The Secret'' promises success to people who think positively, through something its authors call ''the law of attraction.'' If they follow that logic, both Drew Heriot, the director of the movie on which the book is based, and Dan Hollings, the developer of its Web site, should think affirming thoughts after filing separate suits against Rhonda Byrne, the creator of the project.  PAGE A17 
  GREAT TASTE, LESS WAGNER
  What does one do after 31 years of making sure everything runs like clockwork so the divas and tenors can dazzle at the Metropolitan Opera? Make beer, of course. Joe Clark, who is stepping down in August as the Met's technical director, will be revisiting a long-deferred dream of starting a microbrewery, following some training in Munich.  PAGE A17 
  SKETCHING A LEADER
  Yasmina Reza's ''Dawn, Dusk or Night,'' which she calls ''an impressionistic sketch'' of Nicolas Sarkozy's campaign for the French presidency last year, largely concerns itself with personalities instead of issues of state. The French playwright followed Mr. Sarkozy around during his bid, and her account played a large role in shaping public perception of the French leader. ''It is as if Nicolas Sarkozy stepped out of my pages and now leads his own life,'' she said.  PAGE A17 
  Anthony Tommasini: 
  Kurt Masur in Paris  A17 
  Jennifer Dunning: 
  Updating ''La Voix''  A19 
  Obituaries
  JIMMY GIUFFRE
  An adventurous clarinetist -- he played five other instruments, as well -- his 50-year journey through jazz led him from writing the Woody Herman anthem ''Four Brothers'' through minimalist, drummerless trios to striking experimental orchestral works.  PAGE A16 
  This Weekend
  MAGAZINE
  Why would gay men in their 20s rush to marry? Maybe it has something to do with gay teenagers coming out earlier and being able to experience a gay adolescence, Benoit Denizet-Lewis writes. And with that making them more likely to feel normal, he adds, they just want what they've seen espoused by the mainstream.  PAGE 28
  How Moody's and other credit-rating agencies licensed the abuses that created the housing bubble -- and bust.  PAGE 36
  TRAVEL
  Ansel Adams first visited Yosemite National Park when he was 14 years old, and he accidentally snapped a topsy-turvy photograph that remained one of his lifelong favorites. Today, professional and novice photographers still go to Yosemite, trying to retrace his path -- and, perhaps, capture a bit of his magic.  PAGE 3
  Its grand Buddhist temples and tucked-away shrines, its mountains and trickling canals, its spring-blossoming cherry trees and autumn-flaming maples make Kyoto perhaps Japan's prettiest city. So of course it's packed with tourists. And expensive -- is it possible to find tranquillity on a budget?  PAGE 7
  BOOK REVIEW
  In ''The Second Plane,'' his collection of essays about Sept. 11, Martin Amis substitutes insult for analysis and writes about history and politics as if Orwell never lived, Leon Wieseltier writes. For all of Mr. Amis's testimonies about the event's transformative impact, there is at least one way in which he has been thoroughly untouched by the atrocity: he is still busy with the pursuit of extraordinary sentences.  PAGE 1 
  Other than that her husband, in his will, left her only his ''second-best bed,'' we have almost no solid facts about Ann Hathaway. The prevailing image is that of an illiterate seductress who ensnared William Shakespeare in a loveless union. But after Germaine Greer's ingenious book, ''Shakespeare's Wife,'' it is unlikely that she will be treated with the same easy contempt, Katie Roiphe writes.  PAGE 12 
  ARTS & LEISURE
  Legend has it that the disturbances that convulsed France in the spring of 1968 began at the movies and came full circle when, three months later, the Cannes Film Festival came to a halt. New Yorkers can mark the 40th anniversary of that year with a program on Jean-Luc Godard at the Film Forum and a wide-ranging series at Lincoln Center. To rediscover the cinematic experiments of 1968 is to be amazed at how raw, how disarmingly alive the period's films are. A review by A.O. Scott.  PAGE 1 
  Madonna's 11th studio album, ''Hard Candy,'' is devoted to the instant gratification of a musical sweet tooth, Jon Pareles writes. Her last album of new material for Warner Brothers Records, it is the kind of collection a record company longs for in the current embattled market: a set of catchy, easily digestible, mass-appeal songs by a star who's not taking chances.  PAGE 1 
  The ''I want my MTV'' campaign made him one of the most influential admen of his generation. But among admirers of brilliant design, George Lois is most esteemed for the covers he created for Esquire, 31 of which are in an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art: Tricky Dick having lipstick applied, Andy Warhol drowning in a soup can. ''You didn't have to put low-grade movie stars on the cover,'' said Graydon Carter. ''You could put ideas there.''  PAGE 1 
  STYLES
  It's a situation not specifically anticipated in the traditional better-worse, richer-poorer marital vows: what if one member of the original pair has a sex-change operation? The law, as you might expect, is not exactly prepared for that either, as some anxious couples are finding out.   PAGE 1
  Let's say you're an Ayn Rand fan. A really, really big fan: her writing inspired you to turn from devout Christianity to atheism. You want a partner who shares your outlook on life, but how to find one? Look online, of course, among the growing number of niche dating sites.   PAGE 9
  EDITORIAL
  50 BULLETS, NO CONVICTION
  We respect the verdict in the November 2006 shooting death of an unarmed man in Jamaica Queens, but we do not believe that all questions of accountability were resolved. We respect the court's judgment as a matter of law, but we see both carelessness and incompetence in the behavior of police officers that must be corrected as a matter of public policy.  PAGE A26
  THE TARNISHED BRASS
  All administrations try to spin, or even manipulate, the news media, but this White House has taken that to a new low.  PAGE A26
  MR. YOUNG WANTS ANOTHER ROAD
  You have to be suspicious when Representative Don Young wants to build a one-lane, nine-mile gravel road in Alaska.  PAGE A26
  OP-ED
  BOB HERBERT
  The Democrats are filled with anxiety in what was supposed to have been their championship season.  PAGE A27
  GAIL COLLINS
  John McCain spent the last week touring impoverished parts of the nation, showing compassion and interest in people for whom his actual policies are of no use whatsoever. Case in point: Lilly Ledbetter's battle for fair pay.  PAGE A27
