Down RGU 1-09 Newry Shamrocks 3-11
DOWNPATRICK are being forced to field a tender generation of players - and are suffering the consequences.
Young, enthusiastic, snappy and full of bite they may be, but the severe lack of physical power and experience is taking its toll.
Their time will come but the club's minor players were no match for an ordinary Shamrocks team that made the most of their more physical strength, destroying the match as a contest six minutes into the second half when Eoin Magennis rifled in his side's second goal to open up a nine points lead, 2-09 to 1-03. 
This crunching defeat at Pairc Tomas Ruiseil came on the heels of an opening day knock-out by Ballymartin, their staggering start already plunging the RGU into dog-fight territory.
No Peter Telford, Michael McGarrity, Kevin Gracey, Richard Starkey, Peter Robinson, Tony McShane, to name but a few, the final scoreline all too harshly relating the story of a one-sided contest.
There was no real support for big Peter Turley who strove majestically to spur his younger team-mates on and who might have snatched a couple of goals in the second half.
His younger brother, Damian, is now a full fledged senior player and well worth his place in the side, fired in a goal in the fourth minute.
Karl Oakes and Barry Gracey attempted to add some experience.
However, a free flowing Shamrocks were never seriously threatened and as the contest unfolded they continued to rack up the scores.
It didn't take them long to register their intentions, opening up a three points lead in the opening three minutes, a Kevin McGuigan free, and a point apiece from Neil Courtney and Marty Rafferty sounding out the warning.
Peter Turley hammered to the net in Downpatrick's first attack to level the score at 1-00 to 0-03, but that was as good as it got for the Hoops.
Noel Henney fed Paul Rafferty with a lovely pass and he cracked a left footed beauty to the net to fire his side back in front.
Further points from Rafferty, following a brilliant scything move, Paul Rafferty and Henney saw Shamrocks soar ahead 1-07 to 1-00 by the 20th minute.
Gareth Trainor grabbed a home point before young James Deeny stood up to Paul Rafferty's fierce shot to make a magnificent save in the 23rd minute.
An exchange of points between McGuigan and Karl Oakes set the half-time score at 1-08 to 1-02 in favour of Shamrocks.
Young Jarleth Brannigan will undoubtedly become a very good gaelic footballer at senior level in the not too distant future.
Continually active, packed with enthusiasm and a mischievous raider, he added a new dimension to the stuttering Downpatrick front play.
He still looks fragile at this level though but all credit to him for scoring three well-taken points in the second half after entering the match at the interval but with Shamrocks in total control was never any danger to the south down side.
Eoin Magennis dealt the hammer blow with his snap goal and from then on it was only a matter of how many more scores Shamrocks could pencil in before the final whistle.
Paul Rafferty slammed in their third goal and further points from Magennis, Courtney and Marty Rafferty wrapped up a fine victory for Shamrocks.
RGU: James Deeny, Davy McCauley, Joe Starkey, Michael Breen, 
 Barry Gracey, Liam Kearney, Peter Turley, Damian Turley, Garett Trainor, Caolan Boyd, Gerdie Collins, John Smyth, Karl Oaks, Neil Cunningham, (Subs) Vinnie McDevitt, Peter McKenna, Jarleth Brannigan, Danny Carville.
