E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com
You had to wonder if the setting was somebody's misguided stab at irony.
  Four hours after being absolved of criminal wrongdoing, the three police detectives put on trial in the shooting death of 

 stood last Friday before a battery of cameras and notebooks. They were in a conference room at the headquarters of their union, the Detectives' Endowment Association. The three men stood side by side for the benefit of photographers. Painted on the wall behind them was the union's circular logo.
  ''The Greatest Detectives in the World,'' it said. 
  Oh, really? The greatest detectives in the world.
  Granted, those words were meant for the city's detectives as a unit. But they came close to mocking the grim reality of the 

 case. No matter what they think of the judge's not-guilty verdict -- a brave and just decision or an indecipherable outrage -- few New Yorkers are likely to hail these three men as the greatest detectives in the city, let alone in the world.
  Even the judge, Justice Arthur J. Cooperman of State Supreme Court, implied that he did not think much of their performance on that November night in 2006. Yes, he cleared them of criminal behavior. But he also referred not once but twice to ''carelessness and incompetence.'' Those damning words were not used lightly. But ''questions of carelessness and incompetence must be left to other forums,'' Justice Cooperman said.
  The ultimate forum has a name: Raymond W. Kelly, the police commissioner. You have to believe that he has thoughts about the future job prospects of Detectives Gescard F. Isnora, Michael Oliver and Marc Cooper, and perhaps also of their supervisors in the botched operation that ended with Mr. Bell's death in a 50-round fusillade.
  Understandably, Mr. Kelly is deflecting questions about his intentions. Other scenes must first be played.
  The federal government has to decide if civil rights charges are warranted, not that many people anticipate a federal case. There is also a civil suit brought by Mr. Bell's family and friends, and with it the excellent chance of the city's approving a multimillion-dollar settlement. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg himself said within days of the shooting that ''excessive force'' seemed to have been used.
  On Friday, the president of the detectives' union, Michael J. Palladino, criticized the mayor for having ''rushed to judgment.'' But Mr. Bloomberg's observation was then, and is now, the unrushed judgment of many New Yorkers, maybe most.
  We're no longer in a court of law. We are, forgive the cliche, in the court of public opinion. There, as Mr. Kelly surely knows, the detectives may not fare so well.
  It is hard to see how they keep their jobs, or, if they do manage to hang in, how they keep their guns. They are hopelessly damaged goods, like other officers in comparable cases.
  To cite an example, only one of the four officers who killed Amadou Diallo in 1999 is still on the force, even though they were all acquitted of criminal charges. That officer, Kenneth Boss, is stuck on modified duty, what in a less enlightened era was called the bow-and-arrow squad. Don't bet on his ever getting his gun back.
  Even when criminality and death are not at issue, the public expects minimum levels of sound judgment from those whom it arms as guardians of the law.
  In 1998, Officer Joseph Locurto joined two firefighters on a float in a Labor Day parade held in Broad Channel, Queens. They forgot to bring along their brains.
  The three men, all white, put on Afro wigs and blackface. They tossed fried chicken and watermelon to onlookers. One dangled from the back of the float, mocking the way a black man in Texas had been dragged to his death three months earlier.
  The city fired them.
  They sued to keep their jobs. Their tomfoolery, they said, was a commentary on racial attitudes in largely white Broad Channel, and they had exercised their right to free speech. In 2003, a federal judge in Manhattan agreed with them. But an appeals court reversed that decision two years ago. Mr. Locurto and Company are gone, and will stay gone.
  Obviously, that case and the Bell shooting are different on many levels. But they have one important thing in common. It boils down to a question of whether the city can safely, or sanely, put a gun in a police officer's hand and send him into the streets after he displayed judgment so flawed as to reasonably meet Justice Cooperman's standard of ''carelessness and incompetence.''
  We suspect Mr. Kelly already has a fair idea of what he will do. The odds seem long against a finding that these are indeed the greatest detectives in the world.
