A New York judge on Friday acquitted three police officers in the killing of an unarmed man in a 50-shot fusillade on his wedding day, a racially charged incident that had sparked debate and protests.
But the police officers -- Detectives Gescard Isnora and Michael Oliver, who were acquitted of manslaughter, assault and reckless endangerment, and Detective Marc Cooper, who was found not guilty of reckless endangerment -- could still face charges: The Justice Department announced after the verdict that it will review the case to determine whether to prosecute the officers for violating the victim's civil rights.
The Rev. Al Sharpton, who attended court Friday alongside the family of the victim, 

 said he will launch a series of nonviolent protests Saturday. 
After State Supreme Court Justice Arthur J. Cooperman announced his verdict, Nicole Paultre Bell, the victim's fiancee and mother of his two daughters, who took his name after his death, left the courtroom in tears.
Outside the Queens courtroom, hundreds of Bell's supporters responded emotionally, some yelling, "No, no, no!" or "Murderers! Murderers!" Others sobbed, prayed or fell to their knees. Supporters marched into the streets and had a few brief scuffles with police.
"This community is angry," said Fay Persaud, a real estate agent from the Jamaica section of Queens, where the shooting happened.
"We told the people on the block, 'Listen, let's give the court a chance,' " said Leroy Gadsden, chair of the legal department of the state chapter of the NAACP. "Now we want to see federal involvement."
After leaving the courthouse, Bell's fiancee and his parents visited his grave site.
The shooting of Bell, a black man, revived memories of previous instances of alleged police brutality in New York, such as the 1999 slaying of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant who was gunned down in a 41-shot barrage by police officers in the Bronx. But the official responses to the two incidents were starkly different.
From the start, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg voiced criticism of the officers' actions in the Bell case, suggesting the detectives may have used "excessive force." Bloomberg has met with Sharpton and Bell's fiancee and, after the verdict, offered comments aimed at soothing tensions.
"There are no winners in a trial like this," he said in a statement. "An innocent man lost his life, a bride lost her groom, two daughters lost their father, and a mother and father lost their son. No verdict could ever end the grief that those who knew and loved 

 suffer."
But Bloomberg cautioned that the decision must be respected. "Though not everyone will agree with the verdicts and opinions issued by the courts, we accept their authority," he said.
Bloomberg's actions contrasted with those of his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, who, just hours before a grand jury handed up indictments for murder in the Diallo case, gave a sharply worded speech to police officers declaring, "We have a right to demand more respect from the citizens of the city for the police officers of the city of New York."
The four officers in that case were found not guilty.
Bell, 23, was killed around 4 a.m. on Nov. 25, 2006, as he and two friends left his bachelor party at a strip club in Queens.
Defense attorneys contended that Bell and his friends had argued with a man outside the club and that undercover officers then followed them to their car, believing they were retrieving a gun.
There was no gun, all parties now agree. But Isnora, who was in plainclothes, pointed his own Glock pistol at Bell's car. Witnesses' accounts varied as to whether Isnora identified himself as a police officer and whether Bell, the driver, rammed the car into him. Isnora, Oliver and Cooper fired their weapons at the car, shooting 11, 31 and four times, respectively. Four shots were fired by two other officers on the scene; one was not charged, and the other was not indicted in the incident.
The number of bullets fired by Isnora, Oliver and Cooper, two of whom are black, raised the question of whether they used excessive force. But the conflicting testimony at the trial created a muddled picture of what happened late at night, in the dark, after some drinking.
In announcing his decision, Cooperman said he was troubled by inconsistencies among witnesses, as well as contradictions in accounts before the grand jury and in trial testimony. "At times the testimony just didn't make sense," he said.
He said he also considered the past criminal convictions of some of the prosecution's witnesses and what he described as a motive to lie to reap monetary rewards.
Bell's fiancee and the two friends injured in the incident -- Trent Benefield, 23, and Joseph Guzman, 31 -- have filed a $50 million civil rights and wrongful-death lawsuit against the city.
After the decision, the officers appeared at a news conference. "I'd like to say sorry to the Bell family for the tragedy," Cooper said.
Michael Palladino, president of the Detectives' Endowment Association, said: "We are relieved today, and how do I spell relief? N-O-T G-U-I-L-T-Y." He responded indignantly to Sharpton's suggestion that the verdicts were not fair.
"That's despicable for him to say that because we have the greatest criminal justice system on Earth," Palladino said.
Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said he will delay any departmental investigation of the officers until their legal defense is over.
He said the police department was ready to manage protests: "We don't anticipate violence, but we are prepared for any contingency."
The case was mentioned  on the presidential campaign trail. "The judge has made his ruling, and we're a nation of laws, so we respect the verdict that came down," said Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.), in response to a question in Indianapolis. "The most important thing for people who are concerned about that shooting is to figure out how do we come together and assure those kinds of tragedies don't happen again."
Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) issued a statement from her Senate office, saying New Yorkers must "embrace this opportunity to take steps -- in our communities, in our law enforcement agencies, and in our government -- to make sure this does not happen again."
