THREE New York police detectives were acquitted yesterday in a racially charged trial after an unarmed man died in a hail of 50 bullets on his wedding day.
The trial, whose verdict prompted immediate anger within sections of New York's black community, has been one of the most controversial cases involving the city's police for years. 
 23, a black man, was killed outside a strip club in Queens in the early hours of Nov 25, 2006, as he was leaving his stag night party with two friends.
They ran into undercover police, who had been staking out the club as part of a prostitution investigation.
Believing the men were about to shoot another man, the officers riddled their car with bullets, killing Mr Bell and wounding his friends.
Two defendants - Michael Oliver, 36, and Gescard Isnora, 29 - had been accused of manslaughter and faced 25 years in prison, while Marc Cooper, 40, was charged with reckless endangerment. Mr Oliver fired 31 shots and Mr Isnora 11.
Justice Arthur Cooperman decided the case after the two defendants, who are black, said pre-trial publicity would prejudice any jury.
He said many of the prosecution witnesses, including Mr Bell's friends and the two wounded men, were simply not credible.
"The testimony of those witnesses just didn't make sense,'' he said.
His verdict prompted several of Mr Bell's supporters to shout "shame on you'' and storm out of the Queens courtroom, screaming their anger in the hall outside.
A 200-strong crowd had gathered outside the building and there was brief jostling with police officers as the three defendants were led out of a courtroom side door.
There were cries of "Murderers! Murderers!'' and "KKK!''
Prosecutors had sought to show that the defendants had been inexperienced, frightened and disorganised, and had failed to warn their targets that they were police.
The defence painted the victims as drunken thugs who the officers believed were armed and dangerous.
Although the colour of two of the defendants made it difficult for critics to portray the shooting as racially motivated, the case revived the highly charged issue of the use of excessive force by New York police against black suspects.
In 1999, Amadou Diallo, an African immigrant, was shot 41 times by four officers after they said they mistook his wallet for a gun.
Hundreds were arrested after taking to the streets to protest at the acquittal of the officers involved.
In the case of Rodney King, the black motorist beaten to death by Los Angeles policemen in 1991, the subsequent trial acquittals prompted rioting in the city, in which 53 people died.
Cincinnati was plunged into three days of rioting in 2001 after a judge acquitted Stephen Roach, a white police officer, of killing Timothy Thomas, a 19-year-old black suspect.
The officer claimed he had believed the victim was armed, although it was later revealed that Mr Thomas had been attempting to pull up his trousers.
