Nov. 25, 2006, should have been the happiest day of 

 life. But instead of getting married on that date, he was killed in a hail of 50 bullets fired by a group of New York police officers. The unarmed Bell and his two friends, Trent Benefield and Joseph Guzman, also unarmed, encountered the undercover cops in the parking lot of a Queens strip club. Bell and his friends had gone to the club to celebrate the 23-year-old black man's last hours of bachelorhood. 
In a few frantic moments, the police officers had fired upon the young men whom they say they feared were armed and dangerous.
On Friday, three officers, two of whom were black, were acquitted of all charges in the shooting that left Bell dead and Benefield and Guzman wounded. Michael Oliver, a Clifton native who'd fired 31 shots, and fellow officer Gescard Isnora had stood trial for manslaughter. A third officer, Marc Cooper, had been charged with reckless endangerment. Two other shooters were not charged.
Although Oliver was the only white officer on trial, the history of black men being shot by the police in New York and across the country gave the case a disquieting racial cast, at least to some.
After the two-month, non-jury trial, the judge, Justice Arthur Cooperman, explained his verdict. He said the state had not proved its case beyond a reasonable doubt, and that the police officers - who did not testify in the trial - had previously offered more credible accounts of the early-morning encounter than the two men who survived the torrent of bullets did. The police officers' account of the encounter had been culled from grand jury testimony.
But the judge's verdict is just the beginning. A long retrial of the troubling events began Friday outside a Queens courthouse, where some in the crowd shouted, "Murderers!"
The court of public opinion about the verdict will be largely guided by what people are predisposed to believe: what their experiences with the police and young black and brown men have been, and how they feel about them.
Most people don't like to talk about the chasms that separate many segments of our society until blood seeps across the divide: Somebody dies. Someone else goes on trial.

 is dead. Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper have been acquitted of the charges against them.
What do you think about that? What are you predisposed to believe?
