It's "D-Day." That means decision time for the 
 trial, in which three NYPD detectives are accused of killing the groom-to-be and injuring his two friends in a hail of bullets outside a Queens strip club last November.  
Bell supporters yesterday said they expected the community to react peacefully no matter the verdict today - but the NYPD, state court officials and the club at the center of it all prepared for the worst. 
"Tomorrow is like D-Day - decision day," Bishop Lester Williams, spiritual adviser to Bell's mother, Valerie, said yesterday. "I pray for calm. I pray for the Police Department and the city of New York." Meanwhile, the Kalua club, where Bell, 23, was celebrating his bachelor party, planned to shut down today in the event of an unfavorable verdict. 
"The boss is worried that people will bum rush the place if the cops get off and tear it apart," a bouncer told The Post. 
Detectives Michael Oliver and Gescard Isnora face up to 25 years in prison for manslaughter. Detective Marc Cooper is charged with reckless endangerment and could avoid jail time altogether. 
Court officials said other cases would be postponed until after Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman renders his verdict and all the parties are out of the building. 
The NYPD is also buckling down. 
One source said cops were "hoping for the best, but preparing for the worst" as they pulled in resources from around the city to focus on the area around the courthouse and the Jamaica site where Bell, Trent Benefield and Joseph Guzman were shot. 
Bell's fiance and the mother of his two daughters, Nicole Paultre-Bell, had her hair done yesterday at Impulse Salon on Jamaica Avenue. 
"Her exact words were she's 'very sad,' " said her stylist, Ayanna Dossantos, 28. "She just wants justice. She's not the same, happy person she used to be. She's here, but she's not here."  
The Bell family, meanwhile, held a 24-hour vigil at the Community Church of Christ, in Jamaica, where Bell would have been married, but was instead eulogized.  Additional reporting by Kavita Mokha and Larry Celona    
