Three US detectives were acquitted of all charges yesterday in the 50-shot killing of an unarmed groom-to-be on his wedding day.
Justice Arthur Cooperman delivered the verdict in a New York courtroom packed with spectators including victim 
 fiancee and parents, and at least 200 people gathered outside.
Mr Bell's fiancee immediately walked out of the room; his mother cried and gasps were heard throughout the room. 
Shouts of "No!" and "Not guilty!" erupted outside the court and dozens of people began crying.
Mr Bell, a 23-year-old black man, was killed in a hail of gunfire outside a strip club in Queens on November 25 2006 - his wedding day - as he was leaving his stag party with two friends.
Officers Michael Oliver (36) and Gescard Isnora (29) stood trial for manslaughter while Officer Marc Cooper (40) was charged only with reckless endangerment.
Oliver fired 31 shots, Isnora fired 11 rounds and Cooper shot four times.
The judge indicated that the police officers' version of events was more credible than the victims' version.
A conviction on manslaughter could have brought up to 25 years in prison; the penalty for reckless endangerment, is a year behind bars.
Mr Bell's fiancee, parents and their supporters have held rallies demanding that the officers - two of whom are black - be held accountable.
The defence painted the victims as drunken thugs who the officers believed were armed and dangerous. Prosecutors sought to convince the judge that the victims had been minding their own business and that the officers were inept, trigger-happy aggressors.
None of the officers took the witness stand. Instead, Justice Cooperman heard transcripts of the officers testifying, saying they believed they had good reason to use deadly force.
The judge also heard testimony from Mr Bell's companions - Trent Benefield and Joseph Guzman - who insisted the incident erupted without warning.
Mr Benefield and Mr Guzman were both wounded - Mr Guzman still has four bullets lodged in his body.
The victims and defendants were set on a fateful collision course by a pair of innocuous decisions: Mr Bell's to have a last-minute stag party at Kalua Cabaret, and the undercover detectives' to investigate reports of prostitution at the club.
As the club closed around 4am, Sanchez and Isnora claimed they overheard Mr Bell and his friends first flirt with women, then taunt a stranger who responded by putting his right hand in his pocket as if he had a gun.
Mr Guzman, they testified, said: "Yo, go get my gun" - something Mr Bell's friends denied.
Isnora said he decided to arm himself, call for backup and tail the trio as they went around the corner and got into Mr Bell's car.
He claimed that after warning the men to halt, Mr Bell pulled away and rammed an unmarked police van with Oliver at the wheel.
The detective also alleged that Mr Guzman made a sudden move as if he were reaching for a gun.
With tyres screeching, glass breaking and bullets flying, the officers claimed that they believed they were the ones under fire.
Oliver responded by emptying his semiautomatic pistol, reloading, and emptying it again, as the supervisor dived for cover.
The truth emerged when the smoke cleared - there was no weapon inside Mr Bell's blood-splattered car.
