The undercover detective who fired 31 of the 50 shots at 

 said he was "totally devastated" when he learned two of his bullets had killed the Queens groom on his wedding day.  
Detective Michael Oliver told his lawyer, James Culleton, that he "felt horrible" about having been the one to fire the fatal shots on Nov. 25, 2006.  
"He said, 'I just can't believe it,' " Culleton said Oliver told him.    
During the trial, Queens prosecutors presented forensic evidence that showed one of the fatal shots entered Bell's right chest and another ripped through his liver.  
Oliver "has to live with this for the rest of his life," the lawyer said.  
Culleton said Oliver told him "he hadn't even seen 

 in the car" and was focused on Bell's friend Joseph Guzman, who was sitting in the front passenger seat. Guzman was shot and survived.  
Cops thought Guzman was armed because Gescard Isnora, another plainclothes detective acquitted of manslaughter in the case last week, had heard Bell's friend say, "Yo, go get my gun." The comment was overheard during a dispute outside a nearby strip club in Jamaica moments earlier.  
"I see [Guzman] lifting his arms," Oliver told a grand jury last year. "I didn't want to die. I reloaded the gun, and I continued to fire, and the shots still are going on around me."  
Culleton said Oliver was "extremely nervous" throughout the two-month trial over the possibility of facing 25 years behind bars if convicted of manslaughter.  
Culleton, 59, has had experience successfully defending everyone from police officers to mobsters.  
He successfully represented Officer Richard Murphy, accused with three other cops of firing 41 shots in 1999 that killed African immigrant Amadou Diallo.  
Culleton, who entered private practice in 1985 after a 12-year stint with the Bronx DA's Office, also defended Vincent "Chin" Gigante, the Mafia boss famous for wandering the streets in his pajamas as he feigned madness.  
Asked about his success at defending police officers, Culleton said, "For the most part, cops accused of crimes really aren't criminals."  
Of Oliver, he said, "Michael wants to move on with his life."  
That may be easier said than done.  
The Rev. Al Sharpton last night privately huddled with scores of local officials and community leaders at the Manhattan headquarters of the United Health Care Workers' Local 1199 - to which Bell's mom belongs - to plan protests that would include "civil disobedience, boycotts and a major march on the Justice Department," Sharpton said.  
He wouldn't give specifics, saying only that he and his supporters would make their move within the next 10 days.  
"We agreed we have many different tactics," he said, flanked by Bell's fiance, Nicole Paultre-Bell, Guzman and another pal who was shot in the police fusillade, Trent Benefield.  
Organizers said teachers-union chief Randi Weingarten also was at the meeting.  
Health-care-union President George Gresham vowed, "We will be working . . . to make sure we educate people."  
Bell's dad, William, urged, "No violence, but whatever it takes."  
The head of the detectives union, Michael Palladino, later issued a statement saying, "The same legal system that grants people the right to lawful assembly has found our three detectives not guilty."  
Additional reporting by Tatiana Deligiannakis and Ikimulisa Livingston 
