Three New York City police detectives were found not guilty Friday on all charges in the shooting death of a black man who died in a hail of 50 bullets on his wedding day. 
Justice Arthur Cooperman, who delivered the verdict, said many of the prosecution's witnesses, including friends of the man, 
 and two wounded victims, were simply not believable.
''At times, the testimony of those witnesses just didn't make sense,'' he said.
His verdict prompted several supporters of Bell to storm out of the courtroom, and screams could be heard in the hallway moments later. The three detectives - Gescard Isnora, Michael Oliver and Marc Cooper - were escorted out of a side door. Outside, a crowd gathered behind police barricades, occasionally shouting, amid a large number of police officers.
The verdict comes 17 months after the shooting Nov. 25, 2006, of Bell, 23, and his friends, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, outside the Club Kalua in Queens, hours before Bell was to be married.
It was delivered in a packed courtroom and was heard by, among others, the slain man's parents and his fiance.
The seven-week trial, which ended April 14, was heard by Cooperman after the defendants waived their rights to a jury, a strategy some lawyers called risky at the time. But it paid off with the verdict Friday.
Before rendering his verdict, Cooperman ran through a narrative of the evening and concluded that ''the police response with respect to each defendant was not found to be criminal.''
''The people have not proved beyond a reasonable doubt'' that each defendant was not justified in shooting, he said, before quickly saying the men were not guilty of all of the eight counts, five felonies and three misdemeanors, against them.
Mayor Michael Bloomberg said later: ''There are no winners in a trial like this. An innocent man lost his life, a bride lost her groom, two daughters lost their father, and a mother and a father lost their son.''
Bloomberg continued: ''Judge Cooperman's responsibility, however, was to decide the case based on the evidence presented in the courtroom. America is a nation of laws, and though not everyone will agree with the verdicts and opinions issued by the courts, we accept their authority.''
