Barack Obama described his former pastor's remarks as ""appalling," "ridiculous," "outrageous," "destructive" and "divisive."
Hillary Clinton's talking points about how great the 1990s were has its downside, reports Amy Chozick. 
Clinton will appear in two-part interview with Bill O'Reilly starting Thursday.
Reuters notes Clinton's upcoming appearance on O'Reilly's show.
Clinton is pressing ahead on the gas tax break.
Bill Clinton talks about the idea of campaigning at Wal-Mart.
Andrew Cuomo rejected more than 1,000 requests for member items from state lawmakers.
Out of 3,785 member item requests, Cuomo approved 2,756.
David Paterson abandons Eliot Spitzer's practice of accepting only $5,000 in contributions from a single source, and instead, will adhere to the current limit set by state law, which is $55,900.
Paterson is shedding the contribution lower limit "in order to compete on a level playing field," according to his campaign spokesman Jonathan Rosen.
Paterson said he skipped the Reform Day event in Albany because of a scheduling conflict, which disappointed activists who had invited him.
The American Spectator misses New York's tough teacher tenure law.
Michael Bloomberg presents his budget tomorrow.
He may testify in an upcoming gun trial.
Larry Seabrook and groups he funds may be the next targets in a slush-fund probe at City Hall.
Diana Reyna steered taxpayer money to groups that pay her sister-in-law and mother-in-law.
More than 100 groups and as many as six city lawmakers are being investigated, reports David Seifman.
The New York Post editorial board asks why the mayor's Department of Youth and Community Development approved all these problematic member items for city lawmakers.
Nat Hetnoff has a warning about the idea of Ray Kelly for mayor.
Anthony Weiner released a report on how much money New Yorkers pay for rent.
Al Sharpton and others plan protests in response to the 
 verdict.
Caesar Trunzo was asked to step down as town leader to focus on his reelection to the state senate.
Darrel Aubertine's sister quit her job as a member of his staff.
Republicans may be divided in the race to succeed retiring Republican congressman Tom Reynolds.
And Michael Bloomberg edges out Tom Tancredo on this list of would-be presidents.
