ANGRY chants of ``KKK'' and ``murderers'' rang out in New York as three police detectives were acquitted of killing an unarmed black man in a hail of 50 bullets on his wedding day.
The verdict in the racially charged 
 case -- which raised questions about whether the New York police were trigger-happy and used excessive force -- placed the city on high alert.
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg appealed for calm after the decision, saying: ``We don't expect violence or law-breaking, nor is there any place for it.''
The city remained calm, with protests limited to
minor angry scuffles outside the Queens County Court, when the verdict was delivered.
Mr Bell, a 23-year-old father of two, died in a hail of 50 bullets outside the seedy Kalua Cabaret strip-club in Jamaica, Queens, on November 25, 2006, after leaving his bachelor party with friends.
The three undercover detectives, who were at the club investigating reports of prostitution, claimed they believed one of the men was armed. No gun was found.
Justice Arthur Cooperman found the officers not guilty and suggested the prosecution witnesses had been unreliable. He found the shooting was careless, but not reckless.
``At times, the testimony of those witnesses just didn't make sense,'' he said.
``The people have not proved beyond a reasonable doubt that each defendant was not justified (in firing),'' he said.
Cries of ``shame on you'' filled the courtroom after the decision and extra
police converged on the courthouse to maintain calm.
New York Police Commissioner Ray Kelly said the three officers could still face internal disciplinary action.
But first, the US Justice Department is reviewing the case to determine whether to pursue a federal civil rights prosecution against the officers.
The Bell family is also considering an appeal and is suing the city in a civil damages claim.
Officers Michael Oliver, 36, and Gescard Isnora, 29, were put on trial for manslaughter and faced a maximum 25 years in jail. A third officer, Marc Cooper, 40, was charged with reckless
endangerment.
Det Oliver, who fired 31 bullets on the night of the shooting, said Justice Cooperman had made a ``fair and just decision''.
``I'd like to say sorry to the Bell family for the tragedy,'' he said.
Civil Rights activist the Rev Al Sharpton was incensed at the verdict and described it as ``one round down'' and vowed ``the fight is far from over''.
He promised protests
``to demonstrate to the federal government that New Yorkers will not take this abortion of justice lying down''.
``They want us to act crazy so they would have an
excuse to do more,'' Mr Sharpton said on his daily radio show.
``We are going to be strategic. We are going to close the city down in a non-violent effective way.''
The Rev Jesse Jackson said: ``An ugly pattern is emerging in New York. This was a massacre. This was not a shoot-out and the US Attorney-General must give America the assurance that we all have equal protection under the law.''
