Our city can weather the storm of civil disobedience promised by those outraged by the acquittals of the cops who slaughtered 

 just as we have survived other court decisions that violated basic notions of fairness and common sense.
But weathering the storm isn't enough; we've got to come through it stronger. Here are six measures to help heal the city and make it less likely there will be another Bell killing. 
Discipline the Cops Responsible for This Tragedy
Nobody involved in the case, including the NYPD, has called the undercover operation at Club Kalua anything but a fumbling string of police mistakes that led to deadly force being used in a situation that yielded not a single arrest for guns, drugs or prostitution - or even a fistfight.
In announcing the verdict, Justice Arthur Cooperman twice mentioned police "carelessness and incompetence" as issues worth addressing, albeit not in his courtroom. Using the NYPD's departmental trial system, Commissioner Raymond Kelly should move to fire, demote or reassign the officers whose lax supervision and flawed instincts cost Bell his life.
Publish the Patrol Guide for All to Understand
Parents, ministers, mentors and guidance counselors citywide are at wit's end trying to figure out what to tell black boys and men about how to avoid or defuse overreactions by the police.
A lot of well-intentioned advice is probably irrelevant: the suggestion to follow whatever instructions come from a law-enforcement officer, for instance, can be useless when cops are conducting undercover operations.
The NYPD should publish the patrol guide on its Web site and work with community leaders to create a plain-English commentary that makes clear, among other things, the ways officers are supposed to identify themselves and when they are authorized to use deadly force.
Make Breathalyzers Mandatory as a Matter of Law
Some of the cops who shot 

 Trent Benefield and Joseph Guzman had been drinking at Kalua as part of their undercover assignment, but weren't required to prove they weren't intoxicated.
Kelly has since issued an order requiring cops to be tested in such situations in the future - but that rule could be revoked at any time by Kelly or a future commissioner.
There should be a law that cops who have been drinking on duty for any reason get tested for drunkenness if they have fired their weapons and/or killed someone.
Create a Special Prosecutor to Handle Police Misconduct Cases
Conspiracy theorists say Queens District Attorney Richard Brown's office deliberately botched the prosecution in order to see the cops who killed Bell go free.
That's nonsense; the prosecutors tried really hard. But they weren't experienced in how to mount an all-out case against cops, who are their allies in 99% of all prosecutions.
To cut through the built-in conflict of interest, we should have a citywide special prosecutor whose only job is to examine and prosecute allegations of police conduct.
Address the Racial Aspects of Violent Crime and Police Brutality Forthrightly
Most violent crimes in our city are committed by blacks against other blacks. And virtually all cases of cowboy craziness by cops (whatever their race) get aimed at black and Latino men.
There. Was that so hard to read?
Both situations are unacceptable and tear at the fabric of the city, yet political leaders run from pronouncing these hard truths and starting a public dialogue about their causes and effects.
Will it be a difficult conversation? Of course. But real leaders don't shy away from a job just because it's hard.
Urge Union Bosses to Act Like City Leaders
It's understood that PBA President Patrick Lynch and detectives union President Michael Palladino are paid to defend their members fiercely. But many of their statements during the Bell trial denigrated the lives, lifestyles and human worth of the victims.
That only feeds the false and poisonous idea, prevalent in black neighborhoods, that most cops hate or fear the communities they are sworn to protect.
A little restraint when it comes to "dirtying up" unarmed victims would go a long way - and earn union leaders respect as genuine leaders concerned about more than their next re-election.
elouis@nydailynews.com
