* New York braced for protests over verdict
* Father of two shot 50 times outside club
Police in New York were braced for possible disturbances last night after a judge acquitted three officers who gunned down an unarmed black man on his wedding day in a hail of 50 bullets. 
Several hundred protesters met the verdict with cries of "No justice, no peace" as 1,000 police patrolled the streets around the courthouse in the borough of Queens.
 23, was mown down by a fusillade of police bullets as he left his stag party at the Club Kalhua topless bar on November 25, 2006, just hours before he was to wed his high-school sweetheart. The shots were fired by an squad of five undercover officers who had the club under surveillance for prostitution and drugs.
The defence said that an officer confronted Mr Bell and his friends after hearing one of the group say: "Go get my gat", slang for gun. The officers said that they began firing when Mr Bell's Nissan Altima car tried to run over the detective.
Three of the plain-clothes men - Gescard Isnora, Michael Oliver and Marc Cooper - were charged with a range of offences from manslaughter to reckless endangerment for firing 46 of the 50 shots. Justice Arthur Cooperman, who heard the two-month trial without a jury at the officers' request, acquitted the three detectives of all charges.
"The court has found that the incident lasted just seconds. The officers responded to perceived criminal conduct; the unfortunate consequences of their conduct were tragic," the judge ruled.
Nicole Paultre-Bell, the victim's fiancee and mother of his two young daughters, walked out of the court as Mr Bell's mother burst into tears.
Outside, Lorenzo Steele, a former police officer who joined the protest, said: "We never shoot 40-50 times. This was murder, and saying they are not guilty is a shame."
Ray Kelly, the police commissioner said: "Obviously some people who will be disappointed with the verdict. We understand that. We don't anticipate violence but we are prepared for any contingency."
The case drew comparison with the 1999 shooting of an African immigrant named Amadou Diallo, who was gunned down in a volley of 41 shots by police who mistook his wallet for a gun. The acquittal of the officers in the Diallo case sparked protests that led to hundreds of arrests. The Bell case has not inflamed racial tensions in the same way because two of the accused officers were themselves black.
The detectives could still face federal civil rights charges and police disciplinary proceedings. Mr Bell's family have also filed a civil claim.
