FROM Day 1, I was on my own.  
I alone in the media saw the case against the cops who shot 

 as an absolute stinker - a trial that pitted three men who tried to protect innocent lives against every stripper, crackhead and thug in the borough of Queens.   
As it turns out, I was right. And I wanted to feel good about the verdict.  
But then, I spoke to Detective Marc Cooper. And the heart of this cop was with the family of the man he killed.  
"We're hurting," he told me, his voice gentle as tears. "Everybody is different. We are not robots."  
These last two months, Cooper was painted as the sympathetic figure standing trial in the fatal police shooting of 

 one dank and desperate night at the Queens club Kalua.  
Yet he defended his colleague, Detective Michael Oliver, who has been tarred, featured, tried and convicted in the press of extreme arrogance. Of being a "robot."  
But the second this loser of a trial was over, and Justice Arthur Cooperman made it clear to everyone - save perhaps Al Sharpton and Michael Bloomberg - that no crime was committed in the tragic death of Bell, Oliver did something remarkable.  
The iceman melteth. He cried. Openly and uncontrollably, for all to see.  
It's over.  
After the acquittal, the first words out of Cooper's mouth were for the Bell family.  
"I want to say sorry to the Bell family for the tragedy," he said, choking up.  
With yesterday's decision, perhaps this city may start to heal. Detectives Cooper, Oliver and Gescard Isnora are not going to jail. Why they went on trial in the first place is a mystery steeped in politics and ill will from which this city has to recover.  
But for Cooper, it's not finished. Not for any of these men.  
Cooper, acquitted of reckless endangerment, is the only man who stood trial in Bell's death who is a husband and father. Cooper understands dread in ways others can only imagine.  
"I'm hoping to get my family back," he told me.  
These last two months have been stressful on Cooper's wife and children, ages 13 and 5.  
I asked Cooper if he was going to celebrate.  
"I'm going home to sleep," he said. "I've been sleeping two hours a night for months."  
After the verdict, Oliver regained his composure. But first he thanked me for seeing this case for what it was.  
"My family appreciates your articles," he said.  
"Thank you."  
Thank me? You put your life on the line and nearly lost everything, because you did your job. I thank you.  
Bell's death, sadly, was caused by a potent mixture of booze and bravado. It represents a dark period in this city that began when Mayor Bloomberg declared Bell's shooting "excessive" and "unacceptable" - before any investigation was done.  
But prosecutor Charles Testagrossa put on a half-assed show trial, in which his own witnesses continually tripped themselves up and made it clear they were looking for big civil judgments from the city.  
This city will recover. It always does. But I fear one thing:  
Mayor - how many will fear to join the police force now? 
