To the Editor:
  Re ''Judge Acquits Detectives in 50-Shot Killing of Bell'' (front page, April 26):
  The verdict in the 

 shooting, acquitting all defendants of all charges, is sad, but probably inevitable. The detectives' claim that they believed that their lives were threatened was all that was necessary for Justice Arthur J. Cooperman. 
  That the families of the victims should be appalled by this outcome is obvious. It flies in the face of our most honored principles of justice and fairness. 
  But why should any of the rest of us feel less outraged or fearful? The verdict repudiates the very notion of police as protectors. We now see that the true intent of their oath is to ''serve and protect'' one another. 
  If this situation is to change, we must compel police officers to hold our interests and our lives above their own. They must accept the threat of harm as part of their jobs and their oaths. And they must demonstrate restraint even at the expense of their lives. Our society is served only when they take bullets for us, not we for them. 
  Paul H. Hebner Astoria, Queens, April 26, 2008
  To the Editor:
  Re ''In Bell Case, Black New Yorkers See Nuances That Temper Rage'' (front page, April 27):
  The ''nuance'' that black New Yorkers see is hopelessness, as once again the judicial system confirms the worthlessness of black life in the eyes of those armed by the state, whatever their color. Perhaps when an upper-middle-class white kid is shot at 50 times and killed by the police without provocation, the judicial system and the mostly oblivious and silent white New Yorkers will recognize that unprovoked police abuse, violence and murder are real. 
  Until then, young men of color should be clear that simply existing while black is just cause for their killing and protect their lives accordingly. We all should. As a 55-year-old black woman who has been an activist against police brutality for nearly four decades, I won't be joining in any protests against the verdict surrounded by heavily armed cops who are licensed to kill with impunity.
   Jill Nelson New York, April 27, 2008
  To the Editor:
  My grandfather was born a slave in North Carolina. My father never learned to read or write. I earned a Ph.D. from Yale University at age 51 and teach in one of the world's leading universities. I served honorably in the United States Army. 
  I pay my taxes and vote every chance I get, and I have never been arrested. My wife and I have been married 25 years, and our daughter is finishing her first year at Yale College. But the New York City criminal justice system just informed me that, despite all my accomplishments, should I encounter the wrong police officer on the streets of New York tonight, my life will have no value.
  Robert Hinton New York, April 26, 2008
  To the Editor:
  Kyle K. Murphy (''The Fear Behind the Badge,'' Op-Ed, April 27) quotes the 

 trial prosecutor, Charles Testagrossa: ''We ask the police to risk their lives to protect ours,'' but adds his own opinion: ''I agree. But they shouldn't have to gamble with them.'' 
  Active crime-fighting is always a gamble from the time an officer heads out onto the street, through every job and arrest, especially in explosive domestic situations. Since cops are technically on duty 24 hours a day (if they live in the city), danger and risk are always potentially present. Those who never want to gamble (take serious risks) in an effort to save the lives of others -- bystanders, victims and even those who violate the law -- should find another line of work. 
  Because the Bell case defendants were acquitted of criminal charges does not mean that they acted responsibly or professionally.
  Michael J. Gorman Whitestone, Queens, April 28, 2008
  The writer is a retired N.Y.P.D. lieutenant and a lawyer.
