EASLEY, S.C. 
Teen charged with killing
his family
Ateenager who had recently moved back home after breaking up with his live-in girlfriend is accused of gunning down and killing four family members, stunning friends and neighbors. 
Nathaniel Dickson, 18, was arrested Saturday night at a home in Belton about 20 miles from where the bodies of his father, stepmother, stepsister and younger brother were found, authorities said.
Those who knew Dickson grappled with how the quiet teen who loved video games and sports now was charged with four counts of murder.
"I can't put my finger on what happened," said Melissa Funk, whose 16-year-old son, Robbie, was good friends with both the suspect and the youngest victim. "It's not what I've known him to be."
Authorities would not discuss a possible motive.
"I'm going to have this case tried in the courtroom, not out on the streets," Sheriff David Crenshaw said Sunday.
WASHINGTON
Justice Dept. shifts
on harsh interrogation
CIA interrogation techniques otherwise prohibited by international law might be legal in the face of an impending terrorist attack, the Justice Department says in newly disclosed letters to Capitol Hill.
The letters show that the Bush administration is taking the position that it has latitude in dealing with restrictions from the Supreme Court and Congress designed to limit how far interrogators in the U.S. intelligence community can go.
Among the issues is a Geneva Conventions ban on outrages upon personal dignity, a provision the Supreme Court ruled in 2006 applies to prisoners in American captivity.
"The fact that an act is undertaken to prevent a threatened terrorist attack, rather than for the purpose of humiliation and abuse, would be relevant to a reasonable observer in measuring the outrageousness of the act," said a Justice Department letter dated March 6.
The Detainee Treatment Act of 2005 prohibits cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment.
NEW YORK
Rights leaders call
for special prosecutor
A coalition of civil rights advocates on Sunday urged changes in the handling of police misconduct and brutality complaints after the acquittal of three officers involved in the death of an unarmed man shot on his wedding day.
They also called for a permanent state-level special prosecutor to investigate such cases.
"The verdict in the 
 case proves it is almost impossible to successfully prosecute cases of police misconduct, especially in homicide cases," said lawyer Norman Siegel, former head of the New York Civil Liberties Union.
Three city police officers were cleared Friday in the November 2006 shooting death of shooting death of Bell outside a night club where he had just left his bachelor party.
PHOENIX
Four dead, 27 hurt
in truck rollover
A pickup jammed with people crashed in remote central Arizona on Sunday morning, killing four people and injuring nearly 30.
Authorities are investigating the immigration status of those involved in the rollover crash.
The truck was carrying 31 people. Pinal County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Vanessa White said 27 survivors were taken to hospitals. She did not know their conditions.
|  Herald wire services
