He has the game, what is now the greatest game of pro football ever played, permanently saved on TiVo on one of the family television sets. It makes John Mara like a lot of Giants fans. So does this: sometimes late at night, when the house is quiet, he watches the last touchdown drive against the Patriots from Super Bowl XLII, maybe just to reassure himself all over again that it all really happened.
"It's just fun to watch," Mara was saying on Friday afternoon, "even though every time I watch it, I'm struck by the same thing, and that's how close the outcome was to going the other way."
Soon the Giants will be closer to next season than last season. Even now, it is hard to imagine that nearly three months have passed since Eli Manning made those passes and David Tyree and Steve Smith and Plaxico Burress made their catches and then Tom Brady and Randy Moss couldn't make a miracle when they got the ball back. 
For now, though, we are still close enough to Giants 17, Patriots 14, close enough to Eli throwing one of only two last-minute touchdown passes to ever win an NFL title in the history of the sport. Close enough to the most amazing five-game stretch that any team around here has ever had, maybe any pro football team has ever had, the Giants being underdogs in the last five games they played last season and still managing to win it all.
The Giants: Finally winning their last three games by beating the Cowboys in Texas as an underdog and Brett Favre at Lambeau as an underdog and then beating an 18-0 Patriots team one game away from being called the best football team of them all.
They did all that, all the way to Glendale, Ariz., and that is why they went into yesterday's NFL draft at Radio City with the last pick of the first round, walking in there as the champions of the world.
John Mara laughed a winner's laugh about that on Friday afternoon and said, "It's a hell of a lot better than drafting first. Or drafting fourth and then having to make a trade to move up." There was a pause then and Mara said, "It's safe to say that draft (in 2004) was a little more stressful than this one, because I can tell you that the sentiment for making that trade (for Eli Manning) wasn't exactly unanimous."
"That draft" and "that trade." The draft when they traded up with the Chargers and gave away No. 1 draft choices and Philip Rivers for Eli Manning, the biggest roll of the dice in the history of a franchise that began with John Mara's grandfather, old Tim Mara, a legal bookmaker of the city, back in 1925.
"All I remember about the last 24 hours was the same question being asked over and over again," Mara said. "And the question was the same one every time: Did they call yet? You had two teams, ours and theirs, trying not to look desperate and trying not to tip their hands. As I recall, we didn't even hear from them on Saturday morning. Then they were on the clock and they picked (Eli) and when they did call they said something like, 'We thought you guys were going to call.'"
Of course then came everything that happened in Eli Manning's first years with the Giants, and Ernie Accorsi, the general manager who believed in Peyton's kid brother enough to make that trade, who never wobbled or gave up on the kid even when the Giants kept going out in the first round of the playoffs, finally retired.
Then came Super Bowl XLII in Glendale, Ariz. Super Bowl No. 42. Chuckin' Charlie Conerly's number. When John Mara's dad used to go to the racetrack and make his $2 bets, there was always a point in the day when he would bet an exacta of "4" and "2" for Conerly.
Now, Well Mara's son John sits in front of the television set at night and watches a game his father would have loved better than all of them, all the way back to 1925. Mostly he watches another Mississippi quarterback, Manning, take the Giants down the field and get away from that rush to hit Tyree and finally throw the kind of pass only Joe Montana ever threw in pro football to win it all.
"Of course you see how close Asante Samuel came to intercepting that one ball on our last drive," John Mara said. "And even after we scored, that first long pass that Brady threw to Moss, I still can't believe how close they came to connecting on it. But that's not the most stunning thing to me, no matter how many times I watch. The most stunning thing, every single time, is how cool Eli was during that whole drive."
The old fans will still say that the Colts beating the Giants in sudden death in '58 was the greatest game ever played, because it made pro football on television in this country. John Mara says he isn't old enough to say that himself, because he doesn't remember that game at Yankee Stadium all that well. No matter.
Super Bowl XLII is the greatest game now. Because of the kind of underdog the Giants were, because the other team was 18-0 and going for its fourth Super Bowl title. Because of the way Eli Manning took his team down the field at the end.
"I wouldn't object to you calling it that," John Mara said.
He said he had to go back down to the draft room then, on the day before his team would have the last pick in the first round of the draft this time, wouldn't need to move up to get the first, because you don't have to when you're the champions of the world.
Sometimes I get the idea that Tannenbaum and Mangini think they're as set with Kellen Clemens at quarterback as the Yankees are with A-Rod at third base.
And wonder what they're seeing in the guy that the rest of us don't.
There are a lot of nights when the Mets have as much trouble scoring as the Jersey Devils.
Did I forget to share my mock draft with you?
You think the NHL would rather have Sidney Crosby keep going in the Stanley Cup playoffs, or a New York team?
The Presidential debates stopped being about the candidates, and getting real answers out of them, months ago.
Now they're about the guys asking the questions, acting like they're ballplayers trying to draw enough attention to themselves so they get on "SportsCenter".
Sometimes I think the Democratic voters really do think this is like "American Idol" and are waiting for Simon to tell them which way to vote.
Aaron Heilman is the latest person in sports about whom we have to ask this pretty important question:
He knows these games count, right?
Okay, everybody who thought Carlos Delgado was going to be a big bopper for the Mets this season and that Moises Alou was going to play the whole season start sending your text messages now.
The prosecution in the 
 case seemed to have been run about as well as the New York Knicks have been.
It's been kind of neat seeing CNN morph back into the Clinton News Network during the Democratic campaign, hasn't it?
What kind of odds could you have gotten in Vegas at the start of the NBA season that the Suns and Mavericks would be out of the playoffs in the first round?
Maybe before Steve Kerr made the trade for Shaq he should have gotten all the Suns to promise they'd cover somebody if he did.
They are apparently under the impression in Beijing that they can make the smog disappear the way Peter Ueberroth made traffic in L.A. disappear in 1984.
There have to be nights at Dodger Stadium when Joe Torre misses A-Rod and Jeter the way kids at camp miss their puppies.
Did anybody except me notice that what Hank Steinbrenner said to the Times on Sunday night bore absolutely no relation to what he said to everybody else on Monday?
Here's a fun fact of the baseball season:
Even though he still isn't close to getting his batting average over the Mendoza Line of .200, David Ortiz has more RBI so far than A-Rod.
Carl Hiaasen's new book, "The Downhill Lie," about his return to golf after more than 30 years, is one of the funniest golf books ever written.
Every time Hillary Clinton says that you have a choice when it comes to picking a pastor, don't you want to say, "What about husbands?"
I always worry that starting on Wednesday guys are going to start analyzing next year's NFL draft.
I sort of know enough about Eliot Spitzer's bedside manner now.
