International
  SEX SELECTION BY ABORTION
  Is Denounced in India
  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India denounced the practice of aborting female fetuses, citing an ''alarming'' decline in the number of Indian girls for every 1,000 Indian boys. Mr. Singh called the practice a ''national shame,'' and called for tougher enforcement of laws meant to prevent doctors from helping parents avoid the birth of unwanted daughters.  PAGE A8 
  FACTIONS REUNITE IN ZIMBABWE
  The leaders of factions of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change of Zimbabwe formally reunited in a move that gives the group control of the Parliament for the first time in the nation's history. The two leaders have asked for Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe's longtime president, to concede the national election, which was held in March but still has no official results. PAGE A7  
  A TEST OF HONG KONG'S AUTONOMY
  The Olympic torch has been greeted with protests at many of its stops during the run-up to this summer's Games. But protests that may follow the torch relay as it enters Hong Kong later this week could be a preview of what protests during the Games would look like, and they have brought a new focus on Hong Kong's role as an autonomous territory of China.  PAGE A5 
  A DASH FOR BRITAIN
  Thousands of migrants, mostly Afghans, Kurds and Eritreans, flock to Calais and other northern French ports each year, where they huddle in makeshift camps and try to dodge the police as they wait for the chance to make a dangerous crossing. French efforts to shut down the camps and arrest the migrants have done little to deter them from seeking a better future in Britain, drawn by the English language, the absence of national identity cards and the possibility of illegal work. Page A5
  Rome Elects Rightist Mayor  A7 
  Australia's Hit Song on Race  A9 
  National
  A TEXAS COUNTY AND THE DEATH PENALTY
  Over the last three decades, Harris County, Tex., which includes Houston, has executed more people than any other state in the country except Texas itself. A new study found that defendants who kill whites are more likely to be sentenced to death than those who kill blacks, which other studies on the death penalty have found. But the study also found that the race of the defendant plays a major role in explaining who is sentenced to death. Sidebar, Adam Liptak.  PAGE A10 
  FIRST STIMULUS REBATES SENT OUT
  Many Americans will begin seeing rebates from the federal government's $168 billion economic stimulus plans as early as this week, and the government ultimately to mail out 130 million rebates, with $600 for individuals and up to $1,200 for couples filing jointly. But there is still debate over how much the rebates will help bolster the economy, if at all.  PAGE A10 
  AN ICONOCLAST STEPS DOWN
  Ernie Chambers, a black, divorced, agnostic former barber from Omaha, managed to climb to the seniormost position in the unicameral Legislature of Nebraska, a mostly rural, very conservative and mostly white state. Newly imposed term limits are forcing him to retire, and he believes the rule was created with him in mind. ''There will probably be so much joy in this corner of the world that it will be picked up on the Richter scale,'' he joked.  PAGE A10
  OBAMA DISTANCES FROM PASTOR
  The Rev. Jeremiah Wright Jr., Senator Barack Obama's former pastor, has been making high-profile appearances to discuss some of the controversial comments he made, many of which have been a lingering problem for Mr. Obama's presidential campaign. Mr. Obama has attempted to distance himself for Mr. Wright, and held a hastily called news conference to underscore the point that his campaign and Mr. Wright are not working together.  PAGE A14
  Bill Clinton's Role in Campaign  A15 
  Calls for More Food Aid  A16
  Business
  TOSSING HIS HAT INTO THE RING,
  But Promising Only to Watch
  Kirk Kerkorian, the 90-year-old billionaire, is counting on the fortunes of the Ford Motor Company to turn around. His investment company acquired 100 million shares of Ford's stock, and said that it was planning to acquire another 20 million shares. In the past, Mr. Kerkorian used stakes in other automakers to push for changes in the way the company is run, but this time Mr. Kerkorian said he would remain on the sidelines. ''We're in this for purely passive investment purposes,'' said one of his senior advisers.  PAGE C1
  A NEW PAPER VOWS TO BE DIFFERENT
  In the Middle East, media organizations are usually tightly controlled by the governments under which they operate and journalists who write critical stories are often thrown in jail. The royal family of Abu Dhabi, however, recently launched The National, an English-language daily that many in the Middle East and elsewhere are watching closely. And though those associated with the paper say that it will not be a voice of government, others wonder whether a government-owned paper can be truly be independent.  PAGE C3 
  RECESSION-PROOFED BY DIE-HARDS
  When Grand Theft Auto IV is released, the latest installment in the violent and episodic video game franchise is expected to be one of the biggest video game launches ever. And even as the sluggish economy saps revenue from other industries, the video game industry is having a banner year, because market researchers say the target market is willing to to give up necessities to get their video game fix. ''I'd probably give up my cell phone,'' said one college student who plans on buying the game. ''Probably not food. That's really tough. I like food.''  PAGE C1
  UNITED IS ALWAYS A BRIDESMAID
  As other air carriers have begun merging, Glenn F. Tilton, the chief executive of United Airlines, has lobbied for the same, but has found no takers. Mr. Tilton has courted Northwest Airlines and Delta Air Lines, and now that Continental has called off merger talks, Mr. Tilton is once again turning his attention to US Airways.  PAGE C1
  Bankruptcy Hearings Imminent  C3 
  Europe's 'Inflationary Shock'  C5 
  metro
  AFTER ACQUITTAL IN BELL CASE, 
  Lives on Both Sides Still in Limbo
  The lives of the six police officers involved in the shooting death of 
 remain in limbo. After three were acquitted of criminal charges, all six still face the specter of a federal civil rights investigation, and being brought up on departmental charges. Meanwhile, the Bell family and those close to Mr. Bell met with Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. PAGE B1
  ONE MAN, THREE BROWNSTONES
  When one Manhattan brownstone starts to feel confining, what is a modern-day tycoon to do? For Dr. Mitchell Blutt, who made his fortune on Wall Street, building up -- normally the only option on a cramped island -- would not suffice. So, he bought the two town houses east of his home on East 90th Street, with plans to combine all three into one big dwelling. But, neighbors and preservationists are not pleased. PAGE B1
  Obituaries
  Dr. William H. Stewart, 86
  An epidemiologist and pediatrician, he was a surgeon general during the Johnson administration when the position had more administrative power than it does now, and used that influence to put the first health warnings on packs of cigarettes.  PAGE A17 
  SALLIE WILSON, 76
  A dancer with the American Ballet Theater, her performances in the 1960s and '70s established her as one of America's finest dramatic ballerinas. She was most renowned for her work in ballets by Antony Tudor. PAGE A17
  ARTS
  INDIE ROCK'S BANNER EVENT
  Is Outgrowing Its Genre
  The Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in Southern California, the king of the American alternative rock festivals now in its ninth year, has broadened the rules of its game, booking acts that aren't indie in the slightest.But what's indie anyway? With punk developing into hippie, rock into disco, the borders between genres are blurred more than ever. A review by Ben Ratliff. PAGE E1 
  NEW YORK GALLERY TO OPEN IN CHINA
  With works by Chinese artists fetching millions at auction and the number of Asian collectors multiplying, it was only a matter of time before a major Manhattan art gallery put down roots in Beijing. The first to do so is PaceWildenstein, which this summer will open Pace Beijing, $20 million project in a 22,000-square-foot space in the heart of the city's gallery neighborhood, the Factory 798 District.  PAGE E1 
  SUPPOSED HENDRIX TAPE FOR SALE
  Vivid Entertainment plans to release what it says is a film from the vaults of classic rock: a sex film supposedly of Jimi Hendrix. The film shows a naked man who resembles Hendrix, but the identity of the man in the film is disputed by experts and former associates.  PAGE E1 
  FARMER HOLDS AUDITIONS FOR A WIFE
  In ''Farmer Wants a Wife,'' a show making its debut on CW, 10 women will vie for romance and farmhouse duties in a sort of ''Green Acres'' meets ''The Bachelor'' reality competition. The Missouri farmer at the center of the show, Matt Neustadt, who appears shirtless, pectoral muscles rippling in the sunlight, may not seem like the average sodbuster. But he has the farm subsidies to prove it.  PAGE E1 
  Vivien Schweitzer: Richard Goode at Town Hall  E8  
  Sports
  A NO-LONGER-GREAT TEAM
  Deigns to Play (With a Caveat)
  Notre Dame's football team agreed to play Rutgers over the course of a six-game series, but it came with a catch: Rutgers ''home'' games against the Irish couldn't be played at Rutgers, but at a neutral venue. Rutgers preferred to play the games in its new $100 million, publicly funded stadium, which it has a hard time justifying in these tough budgetary times -- so it left the deal on the table. Still, that's a lot of hubris from Notre Dame, which was only a three-win team last year. Sports of the Times, Harvey Araton.   PAGE D1 
  ARENA TEAM CAST ITS SPELL
  New Orleans is rallying around the VooDoo, its Arena Football team, which recently broke the league's record for season tickets. The attendance has been so good that the league scheduled its championship game in the city. The city took its time rallying around the Hornets, the N.B.A franchise currently embarking on a dazzling playoff run. So what gives? The $8 tickets help. But Louisiana is football country.  PAGE D1 
  Science Times
  GENES EXPLAIN RACE DISPARITY
  In Response to a Heart Drug
  Why are beta blockers, drugs that are a common treatment for people with heart conditions, ineffective for so many black patients? Scientist have figured out the answer: black patients are much more likely than white patients to possess a gene that helps people create what amounts to their own version of beta blockers. One scientist thinks that the gene must have offered a survival advantage, but is not sure what that advantage might be.  PAGE F1
  A PIONEER'S HARROWING JOURNEY
  Arno Motulsky is now considered ''the father of pharmacogenomics,'' a medical specialty in which drug prescriptions are tailored to the unique genetic makeup of the patient. But before that, Mr. Motulsky, 84, faced the challenges of fleeing Nazi persecution in Europe during World War II, experiences he says still influence his work.  PAGE F2
  SOME OF HER FRIENDS ARE SPARROWS
  Natalie Angier wonders whether she is a biobigot -- a person who has an irrational dislike for certain types of harmless animals that generally mind their own business (say, starlings and pigeon for nesting in skyscrapers) but an abiding affection for others (say, eagles and falcons eat the pigeons and starlings but nest in skyscrapers). She says that this is part of the human tendency to assign narratives and attitudes to everything.  PAGE F1
  SPREADING EVOLUTION'S GOSPEL
  Francisco J. Ayala, a former Dominican priest and a professor at University of California, Irvine, travels the country spreading the gospel of evolution to universities, churches and social groups and arguing against creationism and intelligent design. One colleague says that because of his credentials -- he is a winner of the National Medal of Science -- Dr. Ayala has a bully pulpit, so people listen. And usually he preaches to the converted. But not always.  PAGE F4
  EDITORIAL
  COURT FUMBLES ON VOTING RIGHTS
  Democracy was the big loser in the Supreme Court on Monday. The court upheld Indiana's voter identification law, which solves a nearly nonexistent problem by putting major barriers between voters -- particularly minorities -- and the ballot box.  PAGE A18
  NEW YORK'S SLUSH ADDICTION
  Politicians in New York City and Albany enjoy giving away the public's money and making it seem like their own largess. These grants are, at best, a political trick intended to buy voter loyalty. At worst, they have led to outright theft.  PAGE A18
  WAITING (TOO LONG) FOR RELIEF
  A year into the worst foreclosure crisis since the Depression, the House is only now getting serious about a foreclosure prevention bill. Unfortunately, the measure is more supportive of the mortgage industry than of troubled homeowners.  PAGE A18
  OP-ED
  DAVID BROOKS
  This year's election has revealed a deep cultural gap within the Democratic Party. In state after state, Barack Obama has won densely populated, well-educated areas. Hillary Clinton has won less-populated, less-educated areas. In this election, persuasion isn't important. Social identity is everything. Demography is king.  PAGE A19
  BOB HERBERT
  The Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. gets his 15 minutes of fame at Barack Obama's expense. Why does Mr. Wright seem so insistent on wrecking the campaign of the only African-American ever to have had a legitimate shot at the presidency?  PAGE A19 
