YOUR APRIL 28 editorial on Mary Hayashi ("Hayashi warrants support in Assembly District 18") reminded my of my letter in the Review a few weeks ago musing on how nice it would be to have a local politician bring pork to Hayward. Instead, Mrs. Hayashi used more than $100,000 in public money for pork for herself and her husband to pay for travel expenses and his campaign debts. Maybe it would be better to give the "earnest," as you called him, Jason Teramoto a chance to handle public trust. l'm sure he wouldn't try to hide public officials' salaries from the paying public either, as Hayashi had. 
I also saw, on the local news, Councilman Olden Henson smiling, calm and assuring Hayward residents not to worry about the mountain lion sightings   from his backyard porch in the Hayward hills. That's the real problem I see. All the council members and the mayor live in the hills. None represent the majority of Hayward. I would love to see Francisco Zermeno be elected. He lives with us, teaches, runs a Hayward business and belongs to the Hayward Chamber of Commerce. I have never read that he attended some developer's party for building on our greenbelt, as some local officials have done. In a city half Latino, it is beyond wrong   it is immoral that not one council member is Hispanic. That, to me, is something to worry about, not mountain lions overrunning Mission and Tennyson.
Adrian Escoto
Hayward
The poison of society
IT CAME AS no surprise to many of us in the black community that the three police officers who shot and killed the unarmed 
 in New York were acquitted. That an unarmed person can be slain in a hail of 46 bullets and no one is held responsible is symptomatic of a society that places lesser value on the lives of people of color. Racism is like a poison that is soaked into the very fabric of this nation.
Meanwhile, in the irony of all ironies, you have presidential candidate Barack Obama having to run around the country trying to convince white people that he is not a racist or a closet militant. How pathetic.
Vernon S. Burton
San Leandro
Skewed priorities
AFTER NEARLY EIGHT years of Bush/Cheney manipulation, the war profiteers and petroleum conglomerates are making record profits while infrastructure, schools and hospitals are suffering a precipitous decline. It is obvious that Republican goals do not benefit the average citizen, but rather the needs of the wealthy. Why, then, do middle-class voters continue to support the Republican Party? Perhaps they still believe the rhetoric that they will be lifted by that "rising tide," however, the reality is obvious: are you better off with $4-per-gallon gasoline and food prices doubling? Have your investments made you wealthy, or have you simply lost the money you invested in mutual funds? It's time to evaluate what has actually happened and disregard the political nonsense spewed by right-wing talk-show hosts, Republican Party spokespeople and so-called "think tanks."
If the United States is to continue as a world leader in the 21st century, we need to forget business as usual and define a path forward not dictated by petroleum interests and wealthy political manipulators.
Continued support of the Republican approach to government simply continues the decline in our infrastructure, and mortgages the future to generate increasing profits for the ultra-wealthy. Those are not true American values.
Jay Kadis
Hayward
