
 FURIOUS FATHER made a graveside vow to "shut this city down" yesterday after a judge cleared the three cops who killed his son in a 50-bullet barrage.
"The judge spit in my damn face, but I knew it was coming," a bitter William Bell told the Rev. Al Sharpton beside Bell's grave at the Nassau Knolls Cemetery and Memorial Park in Port Washington, L.I.
"Now we're going to shut this city down. We're going to shut down Queens; we're going to shut down Wall Street."
Calling the Bell verdict "an abortion of justice," Sharpton later vowed to hit New Yorkers "in the pocketbook" and said he was looking for volunteers ready to "go to jail" if necessary. 
"They expect us to react in traditional ways; they will not get that," he said on his radio show in Harlem. "We are going to engage in economic withdrawal. We are going to engage in nonviolent civil disobedience."
More than 100 blocks away in lower Manhattan, Michael Palladino, the president of the Detectives' Endowment Association, praised the verdict while Detectives Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper spoke publicly for the first time since the Nov. 25, 2006, shooting.
Cooper apologized to the Bell family "for the tragedy."
In other developments:
. The Justice Department said it would review the case to see if Bell's civil rights were violated when he was killed on his wedding day. The three cops remain on modified duty and have surrendered their guns.
. Weeping shooting survivor Trent Benefield called the verdict "unfair" and vowed to keep fighting. "They should have gotten what they deserve. If I did it, I'd be doing 25 to life."
. Mayor Bloomberg, who took a lot of heat from cop groups for saying the shooting appeared to be "excessive," said, "There are no winners and losers in a trial like this."
. Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly, who mobilized hundreds of extra cops in case there was trouble yesterday, appealed for calm. "Some people were disappointed with the verdict and we understand that," he said.
Tears of rage and joy flowed in the Queens courtroom after Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman read his verdict a little after 9 a.m.
Bell's fiance, Nicole Paultre Bell, ran crying out of the courtroon while Benefield broke down in tears. William and Valerie Bell, Sean's parents, sat in stunned silence while Bell supporters swore under their breaths.
On the other side of the tense courtroom, Oliver appeared to be weeping with relief as he and the other acquitted detectives were hustled out through a back door.
Outside Queens Supreme Court, small scuffles broke out after Bell supporters walked out, some of them yelling, "Murderers! Murderers!" and "KKK!" The hundreds of police officers standing watch quickly intervened and there were no other outbursts.
Bell, a 23-year-old father of two, was sitting in his car with two pals, Benefield and Joseph Guzman, when he was killed. They had just been at the Kalua Cabaret, a strip joint in Jamaica, Queens, for Bell's bachelor party.
Isnora, Cooper and Oliver were carrying out an undercover sting operation at the club. When the shooting was over, Bell was dead and Benefield and Guzmanwere badly wounded.
In reaching his verdict, Cooperman had to consider two simple-yet-competing arguments - either the police were reckless and overreacted or the victims were acting like drunken thugs and brought it on themselves.
Defense lawyers said the detectives fired on Bell's car in self-defense because they believed Guzman was reaching for a gun. No gun was found.
Cooperman said the prosecution's case was undermined by "prior inconsistent statements." He said he didn't believe their star witnesses - Benefield and Guzman.
Benefield's testimony, in particular, "eviscerated the credibility of those prosecution witnesses," the judge said. "At times, the testimony just didn't make sense."
Before wrapping up its case, the defense played a tape of Benefield right after the shooting in which he said a man - who never identified himself as a detective - suddenly fired on Bell's car.
Prosecutors were perplexed at the time, but the defense insisted the tape contradicted what Benefield said in court, and the judge agreed.
"His credibility was seriously impeached," he said.
Cooperman said Guzman's angry turn on the stand hurt the prosecution's case. He also was swayed by defense arguments that the survivors might have tailored their testimony to win a $50 million civil suit against the city.
Noting that Bell, Benefield and Guzman all had criminal records, Cooperman questioned why they chose for Bell's bachelor party a strip club "known as venues that create criminal activity . . . such as prostitution."
Cooperman insisted the court "did not view the victims or the NYPD as having been on trial here," but "the burden was on the people to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt."
Justification was used as a defense, so Cooperman said he had to consider the "mindset of the defendants, not the victims. What the victims did was more important to resolve the issues at hand than what was in their minds."
Cooperman said he believed cops' claims that Guzman threatened to fetch a gun after Bell got into a squabble with a stranger outside the club.
"The confrontation that took place in front of the club was heated," the judge said.
"The court finds another threat was made by Joseph Guzman."
Cooperman was silent on what many considered a key issue in the case - whether the undercover cops identified themselves before they opened fire.
"The incident lasted just seconds," the judge said. Despite "the unfortunate circumstances of their conduct, the actions of the defendants was not proved to be criminal."
Cooperman delivered his verdict in a stern voice, interrupting his monologue only once when Benefield's baby began crying in court. "I'm not going to continue unless the child is removed," he said.
Benefield's girlfriend, Nyla Page Walthrus, quickly walked out with the 16-month-old boy.
Cooperman's verdict closed the book on a closely watched eight-week trial during which NYPD procedures were put under the microscope and the reputations of Bell and his wounded buddies were dragged through the mud.
Oliver, who fired 31 times and reloaded once, and Isnora, who fired 11 times, had been charged with manslaughter, felony assault and reckless endangerment. They faced up to 25 years in prison if convicted on all charges.
Cooper, who fired four times, faced up to a year in jail if convicted of reckless endangerment.
None of the detectives testified, although their grand jury testimony was read aloud at the trial.
Like Guzman and Benefield, Bell was black. Race didn't figure as prominently in the case because Cooper, 40, and Isnora, 29, are black, and Oliver, 36, is of Lebanese descent.
nbode@nydailynews.com
