AFTER THE GUNSHOTS, Marko Gojcaj stood across from a jam of police cars that were parked every which way, their roof lights flashing. A yellow cab rolled past, pocked with holes, its windows shot out, the side spattered with red.
"Is that your son's blood?" somebody asked. 
"I think so," Gojcaj said. "John Travolta, he's supposed to be shot, too."
Gojcaj was smiling, for the red was stage blood and the bullet holes and gunshots were only special effects for yesterday morning's filming of "The Taking of Pelham 123" outside the Waldorf-Astoria. The actors included Gojcaj's 25-year-old son, Victor.
"This is my son's first movie," Gojcaj said.
Gojcaj's voice and eyes were filled with the love and pride of a father for a son. I remembered another car, a Nissan Altima, the bullet holes and the bloodstains all too real. And I thought of another father, William Bell, whom I first saw outside Jamaica Hospital the morning of Nov. 25, 2006. Bell had just been in to see the bullet-torn body of his 23-year-old son Sean.
The son had been killed in a fusillade of 50 bullets plainclothes cops fired at him and two other unarmed men. Sean was to have been married that very day. The father looked as heartbroken as anyone could as he pointed at the perfect blue sky.
"Look at this day," he said. "It should have been a beautiful day."
William Bell sat with his heartbreak in the courtroom, day after day, as three of the cops were tried. Even as the prosecution's case became a tangled mess of contradictions, he seemed convinced that he would get at least a small approximation of what he considered justice. He then heard Justice Arthur Cooperman say two words.
"Not guilty."
Cooperman was wrong to have cited the criminal history of one of the other victims, but he was right on the law, however unacceptable that may seem to those who see no possible justification for cops firing 50 rounds at three unarmed men.
Everyone is presumed innocent until proven otherwise, cops included, even Detective Michael Oliver, who fired two entire magazines. And the prosecution had failed to demonstrate beyond a reasonable doubt that the cops had not been in fear of their lives when they fired, which is all the law requires.
Afterward, the acquitted three appeared at a press conference at their union headquarters, standing in front of a sign there that reads, "The Greatest Detectives in the World."
New York does indeed have some of the world's very finest detectives, but Oliver, in particular, is not among them. DEA President Mike Palladino is the most effective labor leader in the city, but he could have shown a bit more decorum than to exult that he spells relief "n-o-t g-u-i-l-t-y!"
What Palladino should have announced is that the Greatest Detectives in the World would be joining the effort already underway by the Greatest Police Department in the World to prevent such a tragedy from ever happening again.
A reminder of how short a time it takes for even 50 shots to be fired came yesterday with the flurry of shots that accompanied yesterday's filming outside the Waldorf. Two riddled cabs were rolled away and two more took their place as men with paper towels blotted up a pool of red from the street.
"They're wiping off the blood, I think," Gojcaj said.
Gojcaj watched as the crew made ready for another take. The proud father flipped open his cell phone and showed a picture of his son, the actor.
"See?" he said.
I figured William Bell must have felt much this way when his son the high school baseball star struck out 14 batters in a single game. Bell now says he wants to shut the city down. The Rev. Al Sharpton pledges to help him.
Just a few people could create considerable chaos in the days to come.
If only that could bring back the son whose blood was as real as a loss that is as big as his father's love.
mdaly@nydailynews.com
