One pushes paper at a base for Staten Island detectives. Another makes phone calls to investigators whenever there's a homicide in the Bronx. Four others perform administrative tasks at desks at various spots in Manhattan and Brooklyn.
  These are the lives of the six police officers involved in the shooting death of 
  Although three of them -- Detectives Gescard F. Isnora, Michael Oliver and Marc Cooper -- were acquitted of criminal charges in Queens on Friday, they and their three colleagues are still facing the specter of a federal civil rights investigation, and the possibility of being brought up on departmental charges. 
  Therefore, all six officers remain in limbo, working without their guns and badges.
  ''It's devoutly hoped that if the federal government is going to look at this, that they do so expeditiously and in good faith,'' said Stephen C. Worth, a lawyer for Officer Michael Carey, who was not indicted but is under the same scrutiny now as the three acquitted detectives.
  ''These officers deserve to have their careers taken off hold,'' Mr. Worth added.
  Erik Ablin, a spokesman for the Justice Department in Washington, declined to comment on the timing of the federal government's review of the Bell case. Officials in New York also said the fates of the officers were not something they could map with precision.
  But judging by past episodes, it could be a drawn-out, possibly years-long affair.
  ''The decision by the judge in Queens, although favorable, is clearly not the end of this ordeal for these officers,'' said Francis X. Livoti, a former city police officer who was acquitted in 1996 in the Bronx of charges that he killed a man in 1994 by using a chokehold but was found guilty of violating departmental guidelines, fired in 1997 and convicted in 1998 of federal civil rights charges. 
  He served six and a half years in a federal prison.
  On Monday, Mr. Livoti predicted that the federal investigation would conclude, without an indictment, within a year and that any separate departmental inquiry would be completed shortly thereafter. Lawyers for several of the officers involved agreed.
  So, rather than ending the ordeal after 17 months, Justice Arthur J. Cooperman's verdict on Friday was a starting point for the six officers who remain on modified duty because of the case: Detectives Isnora, Oliver and Cooper; Detective Paul Headley; Officer Carey; and Lt. Gary Napoli. All but Lieutenant Napoli, their commanding officer, fired their guns that night. 
  Besides the nitty-gritty review of the shooting, elected officials and the public are examining the officers' behavior in the wider context of police tactics, training and strategies.
  As Justice Cooperman  wrote in clearing the three detectives of criminal charges: ''Questions of carelessness and incompetence must be left to other forums.''
  On Monday, Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which has oversight over the Justice Department, arrived in the city to meet with those close to Mr. Bell.
  Mr. Conyers went to the office of Gregory W. Meeks, a member of Congress from Queens, where he met with seven other United States representatives, members of Mr. Bell's family and Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, two of Mr. Bell's friends who were wounded in the shooting. They met for about an hour.
  Afterward, Mr. Conyers said he had spoken to the United States attorney general, Michael B. Mukasey, about the case.
  ''I'm going back to work with our committee,'' Mr. Conyers said. ''We're going to be putting together the federal strategy.''
  He said the attorney general's office announced it would be beginning its own investigation, but he declined to elaborate.
  After making statements to reporters, many of those who attended the meeting drove to the Club Kalua, a few blocks from Congressman Meeks's office. 
  Mr. Guzman, Mr. Benefield and Mr. Bell's family stood in front of the club, on 94th Avenue, where Mr. Bell celebrated his bachelor party in November 2006. 
  Mr. Conyers emerged into a steady rain. After briefly gazing at the club, he walked around a corner onto Liverpool Street, surrounded by  photographers and television camera operators. He paused at a spot where a memorial for Mr. Bell included flowers and candles. 
  As he walked back to his car, he was approached by Ken Frydman, a consultant to the Detectives' Endowment Association, who asked the congressman to meet with representatives from that group. 
  Mr. Frydman told reporters afterward that Mr. Conyers seemed amenable to the idea. ''We'd like equal time,'' he said. ''We'd like to be heard.'' 
  The officers involved will stand by, in the department's vernacular, on so-called desk duty. This can mean anything from fixing cars at a departmental tow garage to doling out new uniform shirts to rookies at the equipment section or shuffling paper files in a detective bureau's back office.
  According to Paul J. Browne, the Police Department's chief spokesman, Detective Cooper is working in the detective bureau in the Bronx, Detective Isnora is working in the patrol bureau in northern Brooklyn, and Detective Oliver is working in Manhattan's detective bureau.
  Also, Mr. Browne said, Detective Headley is working on Staten Island; Officer Carey is working in the patrol bureau in southern Manhattan; and Lieutenant Napoli is working in the 17th Precinct in Manhattan.
  All six have been on modified duty since shortly after the shooting, Mr. Browne said, though Detectives Oliver, Isnora and Cooper were suspended without pay for 30 days from the time they were indicted in March 2007 until April 18, 2007, when they reverted to modified assignment.
  One thing seems clear: Even if at the end of the process the officers involved in the shooting of Mr. Bell are cleared of all liability -- criminal, civil and departmental -- their careers as they knew them are likely over. None of them can reasonably be expected to ever carry a gun as a police officer in New York City, officials said.
  For Detective Headley, going without his weapon would be particularly ironic because he was a captain in the Army's military police who saw active duty in Kuwait in 2004 and 2005.
  John Arlia, a lawyer for Detective Headley, said his client ''is cautiously optimistic that he and his fellow officers will be cleared after any additional scrutiny.''
