A  SCORE of teenagers from Bedford-Stuyvesant were slumped in their swivel chairs Wednesday night when Noel Leader, a retired police sergeant. and Keith Sainten, a police detective who was off duty, asked for volunteers. A few eagerly raised their hands.  
  ''This'll be a hostile car stop,'' Mr. Sainten said, instructing two of the boys to imagine they were sitting in a flashy Escalade that had just been pulled over to the curb. ''What I want you to do is give them lip. You're not going to flail your hands. You're just going to be angry because you're tired of getting stopped.''
  Mr. Leader selected two other volunteers to portray police officers. He placed dark blue police caps atop their cornrow braids and do-rags, dressed them in blue mesh police vests and handed them toy cap guns. They were dispatched to the pretend window of the pretend vehicle.
  ''License and registration, please,'' one of the mock police officers said in his best television-inspired police imitation.
  The faux passengers responded by shouting and howling insults.
  ''He didn't run no red light, son!'' one of them hollered. ''It was yellow!'' 
  Another chimed in: ''Yo, my mom's on the phone! She want to speak with you right now!'' 
  The room erupted in giggles, but the exercise, part of a workshop for young people on how to behave when stopped by the police, had its serious side.
  The sponsoring organization, 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement Who Care, has often been critical of the Police Department. 
  And the timing could not have been more appropriate. A verdict in the trial of three detectives charged in the fatal shooting of 

 was due in two days; on Friday, they would be found not guilty on all felony and misdemeanor charges. 
  Part of the workshop's underlying message was how to behave in situations like the one Mr. Bell faced.
  ''The way we look at it, anyone here can be the next 

 when we leave here tonight, or next week,'' said Mr. Sainten, one of about 15 law enforcement officers who lead the free workshops, which have been presented hundreds of times since 1995. 
  The workshops stemmed in part from the recognition that encounters between officers and young blacks and Latinos do not always follow the police handbook. In those situations, Mr. Leader and Mr. Sainten urged, the young people should display respect and deference, to avoid possible problems.
  The teenagers participating in the workshop that evening were members of a Brooklyn youth group called Project Re-Generation. Nearly all of them said they had either been stopped by the police when they had not committed a crime or knew people who had been stopped in such circumstances. 
  ''That's normal for Bed-Stuy,'' said Diane Glasgow, a 16-year-old wearing braces and shiny lip gloss. ''You just let it happen.''
