CIVIL rights leaders demanded a federal investigation and vowed to march through the streets in protest after three police officers were cleared of all charges in the killing of an unarmed black man cut down in a hail of 50 bullets on his wedding day.
The verdict by Justice Arthur Cooperman elicited gasps as well as tears of joy and sorrow.
Detective Michael Oliver, who fired 31 of the shots, wept at the defence table, while the mother of victim 
 cried in the packed courtroom.
Shouts of ``Murderers! Murderers!'' and ``KKK!'' -- a reference to the Ku Klux Klan -- rang out on the courthouse steps.
Bell, 23, was killed outside a seedy strip club in the New York suburb of Queens in 2006 as he was leaving his bachelor party with two friends. The officers -- undercover detectives who were investigating reports of prostitution at the club -- said they thought one of the men had a gun.
The slaying heightened tensions in the city and stoked long-standing allegations of racism and excessive use of force on the part of New York City's police, even though two of the officers charged are black.
In announcing his verdict in the non-jury trial, the judge said the inconsistent testimony, courtroom demeanour and rap sheets of the prosecution witnesses -- mainly Bell's friends -- ``had the effect of eviscerating'' their credibility.
``At times, the testimony just didn't make sense,'' the judge said.
Police had assigned extra officers to the courthouse and had helicopters in the air to help deal with any unrest. But within an hour, the angry, weeping crowd of about 200 people outside the courthouse had scattered, and despite a few scuffles, no arrests were made.
Oliver and Gescard Isnora were acquitted of charges that included manslaughter, assault and reckless endangerment. The third officer, Marc Cooper, faced lesser charges.
The verdict does not entirely resolve issues surrounding the case.
The US attorney's office said it would look into the case and ``take appropriate action if the evidence indicates a prosecutable violation of federal criminal civil rights statutes''.
In addition, relatives of the victims have sued the city, and those cases could either go to trial or be settled out of court with the potential for multimillion-dollar payouts.
Also, the officers still face possible departmental charges that could result in their firing.
