THREE New York City detectives were found not guilty yesterday in the shooting death of an unarmed black man killed in a hail of 50 bullets on his wedding day, prompting angry reactions and a federal review of the case. 
A New York state judge cleared two police officers of manslaughter and other charges and a third of reckless endangerment in the death of 
 23. Bell was shot, along with two friends, after a bachelor party at a strip club in November 2006.
But federal authorities said they would consider civil rights charges in a review of the case to be conducted by the Justice Department, federal prosecutors and the FBI.
They will "take appropriate action if the evidence indicates a prosecutable violation of federal criminal civil rights statutes", the Justice Department said in a statement.
After the verdict, hundreds of demonstrators, some carrying placards reading "Jail Racist Killer Cops", marched on the courthouse. There was pushing and shoving in the crowd as police, reporters and spectators packed the footpath.
Civil rights leader Al Sharpton, who has been highly critical of police and is influential in New York's black community, called for wider protests.
"They want us to act crazy so they would have an excuse to do more," Mr Sharpton told listeners of his radio show. "[But] we are going to close the city down in a non-violent, effective way."
Mayor Michael Bloomberg called for calm after the verdict, saying: "We don't expect violence or law-breaking, nor is there any place for it."
The case has outraged New York's black community, but police said they did not expect violence because previous demonstrations against the perceived police brutality had been peaceful.
"It shows that there is no justice in America for the black man. This is telling us the cops can do whatever they want and get away with it," said B.M. Marcus, a community organiser.
The officers gave brief statements thanking their friends and family. "I'd like to say sorry to the Bell family for the tragedy," said Detective Marc Cooper, who had been charged with reckless endangerment. The other detectives, Gescard Isnora and Michael Oliver, had been charged with manslaughter.
The defendants chose to have the judge, rather than a jury, decide their guilt or innocence.
Defence lawyers said jurors in the borough of Queens were likely to be biased against the detectives due to intense media coverage of the case.
State Supreme Court Judge Arthur Cooperman said the charges could not be proved beyond a reasonable doubt.
The judge gave credibility to the detectives' statements that they believed they were in danger.
On the night of the shooting, Detective Isnora, the undercover officer who fired first, followed Bell and his two friends to Bell's car believing they went to fetch a gun to settle a dispute at the club. He opened fire after being grazed by Bell's car as Bell tried to drive away.
The other officers said they believed Detective Isnora was being fired at from inside the vehicle.
