NEW YORK -- Three detectives were acquitted Friday in the fatal shooting of an unarmed 

 in November 2006, provoking an outpouring of emotions inside and outside courtroom.
State Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman ruled that the detectives, Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper, bore no criminal responsibility for Bell's death or for the wounding of his two friends, Trent Benefield and Joseph Guzman.
After the verdict, the U.S. Justice Department announced it would "conduct an independent review of the facts and circumstances" surrounding the case. The department said it "will take appropriate action if the evidence indicates a prosecutable violation of federal criminal civil rights statutes." 
In Harlem on Friday afternoon, the Rev. Al Sharpton called the verdict "an abortion of justice" and promised nonviolent demonstrations in response.
Earlier, Mayor Michael Bloomberg emphasized that the judge's responsibility was to decide the case based on the evidence presented.
"There are no winners in a trial like this," Bloomberg said in a statement. "An innocent man lost his life, a bride lost her groom, two daughters lost their father, and a mother and a father lost their son. No verdict could ever end the grief of those who knew and loved 

"
Outside the courthouse, where scores of police officers stood alert, many in the crowd began weeping after hearing the verdict. Others were enraged, swearing and screaming "Murderers! Murderers!"
Before announcing the verdict, the judge made a statement indicating that he thought the police officers' version of events was more credible than that of the victims.
"The people have not proved beyond a reasonable doubt that each defendant was not justified" in shooting the victims, Cooperman said. About the version of events offered by the victims and other prosecution witnesses, he said, "At times the testimony just didn't make sense."
Two of the three New York Police Department detectives involved in the shooting death of Bell, who was killed in a hail of gunfire outside a club just hours before he was to be married in 2006, had faced a maximum of 25 years in prison if convicted.
After the verdict, Sharpton, Nicole Paultre Bell and 

 parents, surrounded by security, walked away without commenting and went to the Long Island cemetery where 

 is buried.
At an afternoon news conference, Isnora thanked the judge for his "fair and accurate decision." Oliver also thanked the judge, as well as family and friends.
Cooper took a deep breath, shrugged his shoulders and said, "I'd like to say sorry to the Bell family for the tragedy."
Earlier, Queens District Attorney Richard Brown said the judge arrived at his verdict "fairly and conscientiously under the law."
"I accept his verdict," Brown said, "and urge all law-abiding citizens of this city to do the same."
Pat Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, said the police union was "grateful for this outcome."
"With this case there's no winners, there's no losers. We still have police officers that have to live with the fact that there was a death involved with their case."
Michael Palladino, president of New York City's Detectives Endowment Association, emphasized that each day detectives go to work "they don't want to be injured and they don't want to hurt anybody else."
The three undercover detectives charged in the case elected to have a judge decide their fate, rather than a jury.
The trial of the officers resulted in seven weeks of often-conflicting testimonies about the death of Bell, 23, who was killed in a 50-bullet barrage outside the Kalua Cabaret in New York in the early morning of Nov. 25, 2006.
Guzman and Benefield were shot and injured. Oliver, 36, fired at the car Bell was in 31 times. Isnora, 29, fired 11 times, Cooper, 40, fired four.
Police have said that during their undercover investigation of the Queens strip club, the officers believed someone in the group with Bell had gone to the car to get a gun. Other cops who weren't indicted fired the remainder of the 50 shots.
During the trial Isnora testified that following a dispute between patrons, he heard Guzman say: "Yo, go get my gun."
The officers claimed they began shooting only after Bell bumped Isnora, who had identified himself as an officer, with his car, slamming him into an unmarked police van.
But Guzman and Benefield testified they were unaware police had been watching them and said the gunfire erupted without any warning.
No weapon was ever found.
