AS Sir Alex would say - "It's squeaky bum time!"
Well, the Man U boss should know. He's had more squeaky bums than any other manager in the world.
Look what's happening to the shaky reds at the moment. They felt the blues at the weekend and will have to do something special to remain in the Champions Cup.
What the most durable club boss in the world really means is that - Stevie and Karl, it's there waiting for you. It's all about handling pressure over the next few games. 
Don't underestimate the teams that stand in your way. Don't fear them either.
It's time now for shrewd judges and cool heads. It's time now for one final push. It's time now to be hailed champions.
The sweat is on. Expectancy sweeps through the town. Can the boys deliver?
A momentous week has thrust Downpatrick to within four points of the Amateur League's most sought after prize - the League crown.
Derby hits over two of their fiercest rivals, Kilmore Rec and Killyleagh, and a rousing defeat of title enemies Albert Foundry has lifted Downpatrick to the brink.
It began on Tuesday past when Kevin Trueman turned in a dream performance to destroy Kilmore Rec at Robert Adams Park.
The Rec were hoping to pinch some sort of result from their visitors in this their final match of the season, but instead they were put to the sword, 6-1, and chief executioner was hat-trick 'Shorty'.
After he had pilfered the opening goal on four minutes via a deflection from point blank range, a slight swivel setting up a positional stance, he made no mistake, the opportunity being created through Peter Telford's determined header.
Kilmore capitulated. From then on it real-ly only became a matter of how many Downpatrick would score.
The Rec, still feeling nervous over relegation worries, suffered that sinking feeling although it took until the 33rd minute before Downpatrick registered again.
This time Shorty celebrated a goal of quality, vision and laser accuracy. Tony McShane delivered a majestic aerial ball that bypassed a hesitant home defence and the little, active striker flicked it high over the stranded Kieran Gordon who was left clawing air as the ball dropped millimetres under the crossbar and into the net.
Mark Lennon might have scored for the Rec but fired wide in the ninth minute, the opportunity to haul his side level lost with his wayward shooting.
A tremendous tackle by 
 on Peter Telford prevented an almost certain second goal for Downpatrick on 13 minutes.
Two minutes later Neil Taggart was too hasty with his effort as Kilmore missed out again.
Peter Telford couldn't believe it when he headed fiercely down from Stevie Galbraith's corner, only to see the ball bounce back up over the bar on 21 minutes.
Downpatrick continued to hunt in packs and Gordon came to Kilmore's rescue in the 26th minute with a brilliant diving save from the elusive Trueman whose venomous strike seemed destined for the net.
The home faithful were now fearing the worst. They had every right to. Trueman's deadly dipper made it 2-0 and when the eager young Galbraith swept home two minutes into added on time, Downpatrick had the points won.
Both teams rang in the changes in the second half but this was Shorty's evening.
The entire Kilmore rearguard stood star-ry-eyed as the Downpatrick ace smashed in a speculative ball from the left and danced in delight as it zipped into the corner of the net.
Jim McStravick, as usual marshalled the Downpatrick defence in typical impressive fashion - he's been absolutely outstanding this season - superbly backed by the combative Johnny Cheevers and the blossoming Christian Holland. Andy Mac (McMenamin), even in his twilight playing years, competed with relish and enjoyment.
Ian Smyth and Philip Gill tried very hard to arouse a sleeping Rec, but nothing happened for the blues. Gary Kennedy's men were now involved in a damage limitation exercise.
Telford's raking free kick befuddled Gordon and it was 5-0 on 60 minutes. The big man, who yet again was the heartbeat of Downpatrick, was then taken off, obviously with the thought of the other two games to be played over the next five days.
Dale Davidson came on and within minutes helped himself to a fine goal as Downpatrick soared with delight and Kilmore slumped deeper into misery.
A consolation goal from Chris Perry was scant reward for some of Kilmore's endeavours.
Undoubtedly the man of the match show came from Kevin Trueman, while Paul Straney, Peter Telford, Jim McStravick and Tony McShane also shaded the rest of their colleagues, although a deeper analysis would put this down as a magnificent overall team performance. DOWNPATRICK: Paul Straney, Johnny Cheevers, Andy McMenamin, Barry Treacy, Jim McStravick, Tony McShane, Peter Telford, Stevie Galbraith, Kevin Trueman, Barry Fitzsimons, (Subs) Stevie Douglas, Michael Burns, Dale Davidson.
