WHEN Air Commodore 

 saw the squalid conditions hundreds of Afghan orphans were living in, he knew he had to do something to help.
The boys and girls in Tai Masken and Alludhoddin orphanages in Kabul don't have running water, have to switch on lights by connecting two bare wires and during the freezing winter are forced to burn their own furniture to keep warm.
The former RAF Cottesmore station commander, based in Kabul since September, launched into action and has set up a charity called Ringing The Changes. 
And in just a few months, with the help of RAF Cottesmore personnel and his team in Kabul, they have already raised 12,000 thanks also to the support of the local community.
The cash has been generated by a garment made in Afghanistan - pashminas. Sean and his team have been buying the pashminas in the markets of Kandahar from three local sellers for a few dollars each. They are bringing them home where volunteers are selling them for 5 each.
Speaking at home in North Luffenham on a few days of leave this week, the father-of-two said: "We watched the Americans giving aid, such as sweets and thought, great, until we looked at the orphanage and then you consider these children never clean their teeth. What good are you doing giving them sweets?
"I was looking for something during my nine-month tour to provide my team with an opportunity to make a difference."
He added: "We took a group of military personnel to visit Alluhoddin and they were in tears at the state of them. Yet compared to Tai Masken that is the good one."
There are 450 boys aged five to 17 at Tai Masken and 200 children, mainly girls aged five to 17, at Alludhoddin, although there are a few boys under the age of five there.
At Tai Masken there are bare wires on the wall so the children join together to turn on the lights. They have no running water, no toilets and they haven't bathed or washed for months. The building has no heating and this winter the temperature fell to minus 26C.
The children eat mainly rice and have meat once a week. The raw meat is chopped up on the filthy floor, with cats nearby. It is so cold in the winter that wood is removed from beds to be used as fuel to put on a fire to keep them warm.
There are about 8,000 orphans in Afganistan. Many have lost their fathers in various conflicts. Life expectancy in the country is about 40 and the average wage is about 30 a month.
The response to the pashminas has been truly astonishing. Although only sold at coffee mornings, in churches, at Ashwell Prison and one golf and a fitness club, about 12,000 has been raised. The volunteers have sold a total of 3,500.
Sean, who is director of operations in the headquarters of the International Stability and Assistance Force, is aiming to raise 40,000 to help the orphanages which would pay to improve the electrical wiring and plumbing to provide running water.
This is the charity's first target and future goals include sending supplies to the children, improving training for the staff looking after them and encouraging personnel to spend time with them.
The money raised so far means work can begin next month to improve the electrics but more money is urgently required. Anyone who would like to sell pashminas or offer help should e-mail ringingthe
changes@live.com You can also call Julie Bell on 01780 721855, e-mail julesbell@btinternet.com or Paul Beech on 01572 757401 or paulbeech@kirkeehouse.
demon.co.uk.
