AN OFFICER from Clifton, Michael Oliver, had the most emotional reaction of the three New York City detectives acquitted Friday in the death of 
 a 23-year-old Queens man shot in the wee hours before his wedding. Oliver, who had been charged with the gravest offenses, broke down and cried.
Oliver had been through a tense 17 months since Bell died in a hail of police bullets. The case against him looked the worst. He was singled out as the source of nearly two-thirds of the 50 rounds police detectives fired at Bell and his friends as they left his bachelor party. Oliver fired a total of 31 rounds, 15 of them after he had reloaded his weapon. 
No one should be surprised by the final verdict. The sad truth of American justice is that police officers rarely are convicted when they kill civilians. In a police shooting trial, the odds-on favorites are the cops.
The word justice has a hollow ring in this case - and in dozens of others that follow the same pattern. Police are infrequently charged. If they are charged, acquittal is the likely outcome.
The last officer indicted and tried in Bergen County, Gary Spath, was acquitted of reckless manslaughter after he'd shot a black teenager, Phillip Pannell, in the back in Teaneck in 1990.
More recently, the Bergen County prosecutor was slow in getting a grand jury to indict state parks police Officer Chad Walder. And now, two years after Walder shot Emil Mann to death in Ringwood State Park, there's still no trial date set.
In the infamous New York case involving the killing of the unarmed African immigrant Amadou Diallo in 1999, police officers walked free after a trial that revealed they'd shot 41 rounds into a dimly lit Bronx hallway.
Reflexive response
Last week, Justice Arthur J. Cooperman found Oliver and two other detectives tried in the Bell case not guilty on all charges. Maybe there was no carelessness or incompetence, which is what Cooperman said. But there was fear and confusion that led to rapid, random, reflexive shooting and Bell's death.
Rutgers Law School Professor Louis Rabeson cites some factors that have ensured the process is weighted in favor of the police in almost every case. Police are like professional witnesses familiar with the courts, while less experienced civilians are learning as they go, Rabeson said.
Also, police have time to "harmonize" their views so that there are no clashing accounts. They don't have to make any official statements immediately after their involvement in an incident. Cooperman found in his ruling that key witnesses for the prosecution had told slightly different versions of the story to the grand jury.
Rabeson said law enforcement tends to have more credibility with a judge not only because of frequent interaction, but also because police are perceived to be doing a heroic job that puts them in death's path. That image is hard to challenge.
In the Bell case, the police gained further advantage by having the judge hear the case without a jury.
"When there's been a lot of publicity, or the nature of the crime has been horrendous, it's likely to have a very strong emotional impact on the jury but less of an emotional impact on the judge," Rabeson said. "In those situations, it's not a bad strategy to ask for a judge rather than a jury trial, and I'm sure that was a tactical decision in this case."
Now Bell's advocates will probably seek a federal trial of the police for civil-rights violations, more oversight of the Police Department and a permanent statewide special prosecutor.This region has a problem that's become obvious: Police officers are rarely convicted when they are charged in the killings of civilians, mostly minority men. I'm surprised that it doesn't happen more frequently, given that history shows the courts are so solidly on the side of law enforcement.
Lawrence Aaron is a Record columnist. Contact him at aaron@northjersey.com Send comments about this column to letterstotheeditor@northjersey.com
