NYPD Detective Michael Oliver has endured an eight-week trial in a Queens courtroom and a year-and-a-half-long trial in the New York tabloids and the court of public opinion.
Now the day of judgment has come for the Clifton native and two other NYPD detectives.
Oliver and the other officers are on trial for the shooting death of 
 an unarmed man who was killed November 2006 in a hail of police gunfire outside a Queens strip club, hours before his wedding. 
Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur J. Cooperman, who heard the case without a jury, was expected to render his verdict this morning before a packed courtroom of reporters, police officials and friends and family of the slain man.
They will wait to hear whether Oliver, who infamously fired 31 of the 50 bullets at Bell's Nissan Altima, and another detective, Gescard Isnora, are guilty of first- and second-degree manslaughter. Both detectives face up to 25 years in prison if convicted. Cooperman also will rule on a third detective, Marc Cooper, who is charged with reckless endangerment.
His verdict - guilty or not - will cap an explosive case that has haunted both New York City and those who have known Oliver long before his chiseled yet impassive face became front-page fodder and the inspiration of blistering tabloid headlines.
For decades, New York has been troubled by police shootings of unarmed black men; more troubling to civil rights activists, however, is the fact that the courts have cleared most of these officers, including the four cops who in 1999 mistook a wallet for a handgun and unleashed a barrage of bullets on Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant.
Longtime friends of Oliver have said they have been stunned by how vicious he has been painted by New York media, friends and family of Bell and the prosecutors in the case.
"He liked to party but he never had a mean streak in him," said Tony Zlotkowski, 35, of Clifton, who has known Oliver since high school. He said he hoped Cooperman would find his friend "innocent."
"You've got to hope for the best," Zlotkowski said.
But few could guess which way Cooperman will swing from the bench. The 74-year-old jurist kept a stony countenance throughout the trial, even as heated and emotional testimony unfolded from the witness stand next to him.
Either way, an acquittal will not spell the end of Oliver's legal troubles. Bell's widow, Nicole Paultre-Bell, along with Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, the other two men injured in the shooting, have filed a $50 million civil lawsuit against the city.
The dead man's father, William Bell, who was with his son hours before he was shot, has also pledged to press federal prosecutors to try the case as a civil rights matter if the verdict comes back not guilty.
While legal experts expect the Bell family to win a monetary settlement, some doubt the federal government would take up a new criminal complaint.
"I'm not sure that the feds would invest the capital if they're acquitted," said Adina Schwartz, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York. She noted that federal prosecutors tend to be more conservative about the cases they take.
At the very least, Oliver's law enforcement career, along with the others involved in the case, would be diminished, if not done, authorities said.
"I would think their careers are in serious jeopardy, regardless of the finding," Passaic County Prosecutor James Avigliano said.
Oliver and members of his family have so far declined to speak to the media about the trial. Oliver also did not take the witness stand.
Since the shooting, Bell's parents have slammed Oliver, saying he has shown no remorse as the trial proceeded. His grand jury testimony, which was read out loud during the trial, was also described as "defiant" at times. But there was also a moment of regret.
"It was the last thing in the world I ever wanted to do," he told the grand jury that indicted him, "to kill someone or to hurt someone in their family.
"I have to live with that also for the rest of my life," he said.
Zlotkowski, the officer's friend, said he spoke with Oliver on a recent Sunday, when the two saw each other at Van Houten Lanes, a Clifton bowling alley.
He said Oliver did not seem to be weighed down by the pending verdict. But when Zlotkowski wished him the best, the words Oliver spoke in response were tinged with resignation.
"What am I going to do?" Zlotkowski said Oliver told him. "I'm going to have to live with whatever happens."
