NEW YORK -- Hundreds of angry people marched through Harlem yesterday after the Rev. Al Sharpton promised to "close this city down" to protest the acquittals of three police detectives in the 50-shot barrage that killed a groom on his wedding day and wounded two friends.
"We strategically know how to stop the city so people stand still and realize that you do not have the right to shoot down unarmed, innocent civilians," Mr. Sharpton told an overflow crowd of several hundred people at his National Action Network office in the historically black Manhattan neighborhood. "This city is going to deal with the blood of 

" 
Mr. Sharpton was joined by the family of 23-year-old 

 -- a black man -- and a friend of Mr. Bell who was wounded in the 2006 shooting outside a Queens strip club. Two of the three officers charged were also black.
Mr. Sharpton didn't say exactly how they would protest the acquittals of the officers who fired the 50 shots. He said Mr. Bell's supporters could demonstrate all over the city, from Wall Street to the home of Justice Arthur Cooperman, who on Friday acquitted the three detectives after a nonjury trial.
Scores homeless in fire
NORWICH, Conn. -- A fast-moving fire destroyed a large apartment complex early yesterday, and authorities were looking for one person unaccounted for.
Authorities have confirmed the locations of all but one of the nearly 150 residents, said Fire Battalion Chief Tracy Montoya.
The wreckage was still too hot by late morning to allow the use of arson dogs or cadaver dogs, Fire Chief Ken Scandariato said.
The cause of the fire remained unclear, but officials were treating the blaze as suspicious.
Truck crash kills 2
CHICAGO -- Skid marks, a boarded-up entrance and police tape reminded commuters yesterday of the destruction left by a tractor-trailer that smashed into a crowded train station and killed two pedestrians, as authorities reviewed surveillance footage of the crash.
The 51-year-old truck driver was hospitalized after his truck careered off an expressway exit south of downtown and through a bus shelter under the elevated train tracks during evening rush hour. The driver, whose blood-alcohol test was negative, was released from the hospital Friday night but led away in handcuffs for questioning by Chicago police.
He had not been charged with any crime as of yesterday, police said, and they would not say whether he was still being questioned.
Shark-attack aftermath
SOLANA BEACH, Calif. -- A few paddleboarders ignored posted signs warning that a great white shark still could be lurking below the surface yesterday, just a day after a swimmer was killed in a rare attack near San Diego.
Despite the summer-like temperatures and cloudless skies that normally lure large crowds, beaches were mostly empty near where triathlete David Martin was killed Friday. Solana Beach is 14 miles northwest of San Diego.
A shark, presumed to be a great white, lifted Mr. Martin, 66, out of the water with his legs in its jaws, leaving deep lacerations and shredding the retired veterinarian's black wetsuit.
Yesterday, about eight miles of shoreline from San Diego north to Carlsbad remained under advisory closure as sheriff's helicopters scanned the shore for signs of the shark -- and for unwitting swimmers.
Also in the nation
A pre-dawn water main break yesterday turned streets in Boston's financial district into rivers, forced the shutdown of a subway station and cut off natural gas service. ... An appeals court in California upheld a verdict finding actor Robert Blake liable for his wife's 2001 death but cut the $30 million jury award in half.
