IT'S ONE for the books.
No matter what Justice Arthur Cooperman's verdict in the 

 trial is today, court watchers will remember the prosecution of this case as one of the strangest ever.
"I never saw a case prosecuted like this," Marvyn Kornberg, the noted defense lawyer, said several times during the trial. "It's a throw-everything-at-the-wall approach."
Stephen Murphy, who won the only acquittal in the sensational Howard Beach trial in the very same Queens courtroom 21 years ago, is still scratching his head. 
"I've thought all along that these cops were going to be acquitted because the prosecution made major blunders in the case," he said.
"To start with, the prosecution should never have read the grand jury testimony of the three cops into the record because it basically precluded the defendants from taking the stand."
Murphy says once the cops' versions of the shooting were on the record in the trial, there was no way the defense was going to expose them to cross-examination.
"If the prosecution hadn't done that, the defense would have seriously had to consider making their clients take the stand," Murphy said.
I couldn't find a defense lawyer who could explain why the prosecution never prepared their star witnesses for crossexamination concerning their conflicting statements to police, prosecutors and the grand jury.
"Most of the star witnesses contradicted themselves in major, material ways throughout the trial," Murphy said. "Sometimes their statements were tape-recorded. Or written in the DA's own notes.
"The prosecution also put on police witnesses who developed sudden amnesia. Most of the major prosecution witnesses, the police and friends of 

 helped the defense more than the prosecution. It's incredible that an NYPD lieutenant testified that after the shooting he never bothered to ask his men what happened."
Another lawyer, who preferred to remain nameless, who used to work for the Queens district attorney's office, said politics is the only reason the case was brought to trial.
He said there was an angry split in the Queens DA's office over bringing an indictment. One faction led by Jack Ryan, Queens District Attorney Richard Brown's top aide, argued that there wasn't enough evidence. The other faction said prosecutors owed it to 

 loved ones, the shooting victims and "the community."
"Traditionally, the Queens DA's office assembled their best ADAs and made them build a great defense of the suspect," the lawyer said. "If the defense was stronger than the prosecution's case, you didn't go into the grand jury. Judging by his own admission during summation that he could not vouch for some of his own witnesses, it's difficult to believe that [lead prosecutor Charles] Testagrossa could have analyzed this case and come away convinced the prosecution had a more compelling case than the defense."
This lawyer said that leaves one answer: "Queens DA Brown, bowing to public pressure from the African-American community, especially after Mayor Bloomberg said this shooting seemed 'excessive,' told Testagrossa to bring an indictment for political reasons. Remember, Brown and Bloomberg are friends and Brown depends on City Hall for funding."
When asked about his prosecution strategy, Testagrossa told one Daily News reporter, "It is what it is."
That comment - and the prosecution's tactics during the trial, brought smiles to the faces of many local lawyers.
"Even if Cooperman finds the cops guilty, I just wish the Queens DA would prosecute all its cases like this one," Murphy said. "In front of a jury, it would be a defense lawyer's dream."`
dhamill@nydailynews.com
