Baseball pitching great Roger Clemens may have more problems than whether or not he took steroids.
The New York Daily News is reporting that the former major leaguer had a 10-year affair with country singer Mindy McCready beginning when she was 15 and he was 28 (starting around 1990).
Mindy, country's equivalent of Britney Spears, is trying to get her life and career right after some problems in both areas. 
For his part, Roger confirmed through his lawyer that he and Mindy had a relationship but that it wasn't sexual, reports the NYDN. He considered her a family friend.
Anyway, the two reportedly met at a bar in Florida where Mindy was singing and Roger and some of his Red Sox teammates were hanging out.
You know we haven't heard the last of this.
*
Speaking of folks we haven't heard the last of, Britney's baaaack!
You know it was only a matter of time before our favorite tarnished pop-star mom was back filming another episode of "How I Met Your Mother."
The show got much hype and big ratings the first time around, so her return was a no-brainer.
Executive producer and co-creator Craig Thomas said, "We're all so thrilled to have Britney joining us once again. And just to head it off at the pass this time around: Yes, Mom, Britney's very nice, and no, I can't get her autograph for you."
*
Is Jennifer Aniston getting her groove back with John Mayer?
You know we don't know.
But the two were seen enjoying each other's company in Miami last week. They dined together for lunch and dinner and seemed a little cozy.
Both have had their share of high-profile romances, so this might not be much of anything, but we are always cheering for our girl Jen. We'll just have to wait and see.
*
We also want to know: What's up with Mariah Carey and Nick Cannon?
The two have been hanging pretty tight lately, and Ms. Carey is sporting a huge rock on the ring finger of her left hand.
You know Nick had a widely publicized engagement to Victoria Secret model Selena Eubanks, but the two never made it to the altar.
Now, everybody's buzzing about Nick and Mariah, especially after seeing them hold hands at the party after the premiere of her new flick, "Tennessee," reports People.
When the mag asked Nick what he loved about Mariah, he said, "Everything."
Sounds like love to us!
Neither star's reps could be reached to answer questions about a possible engagement, so, as with Jen and John, we can't hurry love, we'll just have to wait.
*
Seems Heidi Montag and her boyfriend/manager/whatever Spencer Pratt did get somebody to ante up enough perks to get them to the Washington Correspondents Association Dinner.
Seems they were the guests of Fortune magazine.
We happened to catch the red-carpet arrival of The Jonas Brothers on C-Span. You can bet Dick Cheney didn't get the kind of girl-squealing, flashbulb-popping response those dudes got.
*
Congrats to "Baby Mama" star Amy Poehler and her hubby, Will Arnett. They are expecting their first child this fall.
*
Lots of folks have been speaking out about the acquittal of three NYPD officers in the shooting death of 

 but rappers have been putting their feelings in song.
The Game has a tune called "911 Is a Joke."
"I'm outraged and speaking out for my generation that are afraid to speak out against police brutality and murder," said The Game. "I grew up in Compton and had to stay silent because of the fear that was prevalent in my community, but now that I have a voice I'm speaking out."
"911 Is a Joke" features Black Wall Street artist Clyde Carson and is scheduled to debut today on thisizgame.com.
Other artists rapping and speaking out include Cormega, Lee and Prodigy, who also has a 

 song on his album called "Field Marshal P."
