The large number of New Yorkers who tune in to public radio early in the morning for information and relief might have been a little surprised yesterday to hear a 4 1/2- minute segment on Miley Cyrus' controversial Vanity Fair picture. 
Or, for that matter, five minutes on the red-hot Grand Theft Auto video game released yesterday.
But that's all part of "The Takeaway," a new show that shares time on WNYC (93.9 FM, 820 AM) with "Morning Edition."
Hosted by veterans Adaora Udoji and John Hockenberry, "The Takeaway" is heard from 6-7 a.m. on WNYC-FM and 8-9 a.m. on WNYC-AM. Come the end of June, it will expand to 8-10 a.m. on WNYC-AM.
Its goal is to be a little breezier, looser and less "packaged" than the classic public radio sound, with the idea of attracting younger listeners. So yesterday's first hour seemed to provide a pretty good sample of what it's aiming for.
Early on, "Takeaway" did five minutes on a U.S. Supreme Court ruling upholding voter ID requirements. Then it did five minutes of mild incredulity about the annual farm subsidy bill, to which most people, including legislators, pay little attention.
There were no headline segments  la WINS or WCBS-AM, but there was a brief mention of the 
 case and several sports reports.
Hockenberry used his wry tone on pop culture reports, joking that Grand Theft Auto players get into the game when they aren't waterboarding someone.
Still, even the fluffiest of pop culture topics had a public radio flavor.
For the Cyrus report, culture critic Mary Elizabeth Williams - whose two 9-year-olds are mega-fans of Hannah Montana - gently explained how the fury over the picture is a big deal about not much.
She noted that Cyrus, her family and Disney people were all in on the shoot, and that its style would hardly surprise anyone who knows the work of photographer Annie Liebovitz.
"If anything," said Williams, "the picture is a little boring."
Which is exactly what Udoji and Hockenberry do not want said about their program.
FAREWELL, BIG RON: Big Ron O'Brien, most recently at WOGL in Philadelphia and heard years ago on WNBC and WXLO, died Sunday of pneumonia at the age of 56.
Matt Seinberg, who runs the radio Web site "Big Apple Airchecks," is producing a tribute to him.
SUMMER JAM LINEUP: The June 1 "Summer Jam" produced by WQHT (97.1 FM) at Giants Stadium will feature Kanye West, Rihanna, T Pain, Ray J & Yung Berg, the Dream, D Block featuring Styles P & Sheek Louch, Lil' Wayne featuring Gym Class Heroes, and Public Enemy.
AROUND THE DIAL: Brian Phillips, most recently heard mornings on WHTG (106.3 FM) at the Jersey Shore, will do 7 p.m.-midnight weeknights at WRXP (101.9 FM). ... The WRKS (98.7 FM) radiothon for St. Jude's last weekend raised more than $149,000. ...
Bill DiFazio talks about day labor and homeless youth in his May Day special this morning, 10 a.m., on WBAI (99.5 FM).
