
 mother collapsed at the verdict. 
His fiance, Nicole Paultre-Bell, rushed from the courtroom stricken with grief. 
His father, William Bell was just plain angry. 
"It's a slap in the face and a kick in the ass," he told WABC/Channel 7 outside Paultre-Bell's Far Rockaway, Queens, home. "Here's a judge that says he didn't care about the law. All he care about is what he felt . . . To me, what's that supposed to mean, we're back in Alabama?" 
After learning at 9 a.m. that the three officers charged in the 2006 death of her son would go free, mom Valerie burst into tears in court. She and William left the courthouse a short time later and made their way though a wild crowd of protesters to a small motorcade waiting to take them away.   
Nearby, fistfights broke out, as people held signs with slogans: "50 Shots. 50 More Reasons We Need Revolution." 
Trent Benefield, a friend of Bell who was also shot outside club Kalua, yelled, "Not guilty. Not guilty. It's real." 
The mass of protesters, cops and media was so thick that the Bells were forced to walk on the street. At one point, Valerie - wearing a pin with her son's face on it - fainted, and was caught by supporters. Bell's family made no statement after the verdict, but Nicole's mom, Laura Harper Paultre, later said she was disappointed. 
"Everyone is upset. We were hoping for a guilty verdict but we're not surprised," she said. 
The uncle of one of Bell's friends injured that night was outraged at the decision. 
"They got away with murder," said Joseph Guzman's uncle Elliot Hankerson, who was with them at the club on Nov. 25, 2006. 
"How do you empty your gun and reload it and start shooting again? 
Bell's mother and about two dozens family and friends - including the Rev. Al Sharpton - gathered at 

 grave at Nassau Knolls Cemetery in Port Washington, LI, later in the morning. For 90 minutes, they prayed and mourned. 
Paultre-Bell, who was to be wed to Bell on the day he was killed, was the last to leave, kneeling and saying her good-byes alone. 
The group left behind a vase filled with flowers, including a rose, orchids and lilacs.     
Later in the day, police were called to Paultre-Bell's after the family received prank phone calls.     
At about the same time, the family learned they would get their wish for federal prosecutors to look into the case as a civil-rights violation. 
"[We] will conduct an independent review of the facts and circumstances surrounding the Nov. 25, 2006, shooting of 

 and two others," the Department of Justice said in a statement yesterday. 
Additional reporting by Ikimulisa Livingston     
---- 
'Police are trained to shoot until the threat is gone. If you are an officer and want to see your family you will shoot as many times as needed to do so.' - Whosright, nypost.com message board  
'By the verdict they were blatantly telling us that black people are still insignificant.'  - Gloria Lucas, 63, Harlem  
'What we saw in court today was not a miscarriage of justice. Justice didn't miscarry. This was an abortion of justice.' - Rev. Al Sharpton  
'I'd like to say sorry to the Bell family for the tragedy.'  - Det. Marc Cooper  
'There are no winners in a trial like this. An innocent man lost his life, a bride lost her groom, two daughters lost their father, and a mother and a father lost their son. No verdict could ever end the grief that those who knew and loved 

 suffer.' - Mayor Bloomberg  
'It's a slap in the face and a kick in the ass.'  - William Bell, father of police shooting victim 

  (lcf) 
'Twenty-five years for doing your job?  ... If I was in that situation I might have done the same thing.'  - Loni O'Connell, 22, waitress, West Village   (s)  
