
 family held a raucous meeting last night in a Manhattan union hall with hundreds of supporters to organize a massive show of civil disobedience aimed at shutting the city down. 
"There will be several actions within the next 10 days," said the Rev. Al Sharpton. "These policemen should know they have not, I repeat not, closed this case."
Bell's dad said any protests will be peaceful.
"We don't want violence, it only hurts ourselves," William Bell said.
Participants said that amid all the angry denunciations of the police and the acquittal of the three detectives who killed Bell on his wedding day, committees were formed and loose plans were struck for a boycott of city businesses and a march on the Justice Department.
"It's organized," William Bell said. "It's going to be more organized."
Sharpton, who organized the meeting at the W. 43rd St. headquarters of the Service Employees International Union, vowed to stage citywide protests after the three cops were acquitted Friday.
Sharpton and other African-American leaders are attempting to pressure federal prosecutors into trying Detectives Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper for violating Bell's civil rights. And they have one of New York's most powerful unions on their side.
Valerie Bell, Sean's mother, an insurance investigator for Jamaica Hospital Home Care Department, is a member of 1199 SEIU.
Union members threw their support behind the Bell family following the Nov. 25, 2006, shooting, taking part in protest marches, holding press conferences at their headquarters, and helping shoulder the burial costs.
Various pro-Bell groups also are going online to organize a national boycott of stores and gas stations from May 19-23.
"The only thing that the establishment understands is the almighty dollar," says one e-mail message in circulation.
Asked about the planned protests, Michael Palladino, President of the Detectives' Endowment Association, said, "The same legal system that grants people the right to lawful assembly has found our three detectives not guilty."
csiemaszko@nydailynews.com
