IT'S JUDGMENT DAY in the 
 trial.
After eight weeks, 56 witnesses and hundreds of hours of testimony, Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman hands down his verdict on the three cops who killed Bell on his wedding day with a 50-bullet barrage.
Detectives Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper opted for a bench trial, believing they'd have a better chance of acquittal from the judge rather than a jury. 
Oliver, who fired 31 times, and Isnora, who fired 11 times, are charged with manslaughter, felony assault and reckless endangerment. They face up to 25 years in prison if convicted on all charges.
Cooper, who fired four times, is charged with reckless endangerment. He faces up to a year in jail if convicted.
None of the detectives testified, although their grand jury testimony was read aloud at the trial.
As the hours counted down, Bell's parents and his grieving fiance, Nicole Paultre Bell, took part in a prayer vigil at the Community Church of Christ in the Jamaica section of Queens.
The accused cops, who are on modified leave and have surrendered their guns, laid low.
With eight different criminal charges to choose from, Cooperman has multiple options on how to rule. He could acquit or convict all of the cops on all of the charges. Or he could issue a mixed verdict, upholding some of the charges against some of the detectives.
Cooperman also has the option of splitting up the individual charges - such as convicting either Oliver or Isnora of a charge in which they're accused of acting in concert, the experts said.
Even if acquitted, the detectives still face departmental hearings where they could be stripped of their badges.
Bell, a 23-year-old father of two, was killed on Nov. 25, 2006, near the Queens strip club where he'd just had his bachelor bash. His friends, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, were badly wounded when the cops opened fire on Bell's car.
Guzman, Benefield and Paultre Bell will be in Queens Supreme Court with the Rev. Al Sharpton when the verdict is read.
While the victims are all black, race hasn't figured as prominently in the case because Cooper is also black, Isnora is half-black, and Oliver is of Lebanese descent.
Sharpton has accused Isnora and Cooper of playing the race card by hiring African-American lawyers Anthony Ricco and Paul Martin to defend them.
"I find that to be profoundly offensive," said Martin, who represents Cooper.
In an exclusive interview with the Daily News on the eve of the verdict, Bell's grieving parents, William and Valerie, called for calm no matter what the verdict.
"I'm looking for, of course, the judge to give the right verdict," Valerie Bell said. "I'm looking for serenity and peace, and humbleness among the people whatever the verdict might be."
Though not anticipating any violence, the NYPD has quietly put its manpower on alert, The News learned.
"This is not the city of old," Mayor Bloomberg said. "People today have a much greater respect for the law and confidence that justice is served."
Oliver, 36; Isnora, 29; and Cooper, 40, were part of an undercover police unit that was doing a prostitution sting at the Kalua Cabaret in Jamaica, Queens, when they tragically crossed paths with Bell and his buddies.
In reaching his verdict, Cooperman had to consider two simple yet competing arguments - either the police were reckless and overreacted or the victims were acting like thugs and brought it on themselves.
The defense team says the cops fired because they believed Guzman was reaching for a gun when Isnora stepped in front of Bell's car and declared, "Police, show your hands!"
No gun was found.
Oliver's lawyer, James Culleton, accused prosecutors of building a case on the testimony of "a parade of convicted felons, crack dealers and men who were not strangers to weapons."
Culleton charged that Guzman and Benefield, both of whom have police records, and their street thug friends framed the detectives to win their $50 million suit against the city.
Prosecutors said Bell, Guzman and Benefield were the victims of poorly led, trigger-happy cops, who fired first and then came up with a shaky story about a confrontation between Bell and a mystery man outside the club to justify their "excessive" use of force.
csiemaszko@nydailynews.com
graphic CHARGES
MICHAEL OLIVER
(above)
CHARGES:
Manslaughter
1st degree
Manslaughter
2nd degree
Assault
1st degree -- 2 counts
Reckless Endangerment
2nd degree -- 2 counts
MARC COOPER
(top right)
CHARGES:
Reckless Endangerment
2nd degree -- 2 counts
GESCARD ISNORA
(right)
CHARGES:
Manslaughter
1st degree
Manslaughter
2nd degree
Assault 1st degree
Assault 2nd degree
RecklessEndangerment
2nd degree
