Bitter as the verdict was to many New Yorkers, the acquittal of three NYPD detectives in the killing of 
 was a fair exercise in the rule of law.
Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman drew on evidence adduced at the eight-week trial to render his not-guilty verdict in favor of Detectives Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper.
There was enough in the record to support sparing the cops criminal responsibility for Bell's death in a 50-shot barrage. But the officers must still be held to account for grievous failures in judgment. 
Proceedings must begin to dismiss Oliver, Isnora and Cooper from the NYPD, along with the supervisors who let the detectives' undercover operation run amok with fatal consequences.
The trial proved to be a clarifying, maddening, heartbreaking exposition of the events on the night that Bell died and two of his friends were wounded. As laid out skillfully by the Queens district attorney, the story is, at its core, a tragedy.
Bell, 23, went to a strip club for an impromptu bachelor party the night before his wedding. The cops were undercover in the club as part of a drive against quality-of-life offenses, such as prostitution and drug sales.
No one set out to commit a crime that night. No one set out to shoot anyone. But then the cops picked up signs that someone in the club was armed with a gun.
Then, according to testimony, there was a confrontation between Bell's group and a man on the street who gave the impression he had a weapon.
Then, according to testimony, one of Bell's friends said he was going to get a gun.
Then Bell's group walked around the corner to his car. The cops followed. Possibly believing he faced attack by a dangerous civilian, Bell attempted to drive away. The car struck Isnora. Isnora opened fire, followed by Oliver, Cooper and other cops who weren't indicted.
Police are permitted to shoot when they reasonably believe their lives are in danger. Under the law, the DA had the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that Oliver, Isnora and Cooper had no good cause to believe they were mortally threatened.
That's a very high standard for a prosecutor to meet - and an impossible one here because the cops had heard talk of an illegal gun. That the talk was wrong only deepens the pain inflicted on Bell's fiance and family.
So, too, the facts that Isnora fired 11 shots and Oliver let loose 31 times, stopping to reload. But it was all over, Cooperman concluded, in "just seconds." He declined to judge the cops criminally reckless for unleashing the fusillade.
This was the closest of calls. Another judge, or perhaps a jury, might have found otherwise. Just as other cops might have had more control, might have been more aware that Bell and his friends could respond to them as attackers, might have approached with lights and sirens.
But what others might have done is not the point in a manslaughter trial. As Cooperman said, simple incompetence is not criminal even when deadly. It is, however, grounds for getting the boot. Which is why Oliver, Isnora and Cooper must go.
They killed an unarmed man. They brought irreparable loss to his family. They tore the social fabric. They damaged race relations, regardless of the fact that one is black, one half-black and one Hispanic. And they cast the NYPD into the worst possible light.
There is anger now. It is understandable, and it will be voiced in protest. Let it be heard in the hope, as expressed by Mayor Bloomberg and Bell's fiance, Nicole Paultre Bell, that such a debacle in which there are only losers never happens again.
