THE War Memorial Club once again played hosts to Apec Taxis Darts League finals nights.
semi finals of the Doubles Competition.
In the first of theDoubles competition semi finals, Paul Illidge (Total Confusion) had to play on his own as his partner Graham Ridgway was on holiday. 
It was no surprise that it resulted in a 2-0 win for opponents Chris Taylor and Mark Thompson (Halfway A).
The second semi final also resulted in a 2-0 scoreline with the current holders of the trophy, 

 and Graham Littlemore (Navvy), beating Steve Massey and Wally Nethercott (Halfway A).
Next came the final of the Executive competition.
The holders of the trophy, Halfway Gents, won the opening game thanks to Anthony Hall but the scores were levelled when Eric Silcock (RAOB Buffs) won.
The response for the latter proved to be shortlived, however, for Halfway Gents then took the next four games to put them into an unassailable 5-1 lead with wins from Steve McKay, Brian Whitby, Paul Edwards and Karl Whitfield.
Colin Ellis then won for RAOB Buffs but the last two games went in favour of Halfway Gents with wins from Peter Bellfield and Keith Massey to make the final score 7-2.
Play was concluded on Thursday night with the final of the Doubles competition.
The first leg went to Sean and Graham with Graham recording a 107 finish.
Chris and Mark then levelled the scores only to see Sean and Graham win the deciding leg and so retain their title.
Friday night's action began with a play-off in the Highest Score competition, which was won by Mike O'Dwyer (Roundhouse).
Next came the semi finals of the Individual competition and in the first of these Karl Windisch (Halfway A) progressed to the final with a 2-0 win against former champion, Steve Roberts (Tricorn), with Karl finishing the first leg in 17 darts.
The first leg in the second semi final went in favour of Adie Heathcote (Navvy), but the scores were tied when with the aid of a maximum Steve Shackleton (Tricorn) took the second leg.
In a tense decider, it was Adie who hit the all-important finishing double and so progressed to the final.
These semi finals were followed by the final of the Town Championship.
Roundhouse set the early running when they won the first three games with wins from Keith Worthington, Mike Hassey and John Glover, but Tricorn hit back in fine style when they took the next five games to make certain of the championship with wins from Neil Connor, Steve Shackleton, Steve Roberts, Ian King and Dave Roberts.
The final game went in favour of Roundhouse's Harry Wright.
Play was then concluded with the final of the Individual competition.
The new champion is Karl Windisch, who went on to win 2-0 with games of 21 and 22 darts.
The 2008 summer league will commence on May 8 and will be preceded on May 7 by a secretaries' meeting, which will commence at 7.30pm at the War Memorial Club.
Fixtures and result sheets for the forthcoming summer league will be distributed. Therefore, it is important that all teams are represented.
