E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com
This you can pretty much take to the bank: By late Friday morning, at least one side in the 
 case will say that the criminal justice system doesn't work. The criminal justice system never seems to work in the eyes of those who do not get the courtroom verdict that they want.
  Throughout this case, neither side has shown great confidence in the system. 
  The three detectives charged in the 50-shot fusillade that killed  Mr. Bell in Queens 17 months ago tried to have the case moved elsewhere. They relied on a flimsy claim that a borough of 2.3 million people was somehow incapable of producing 12 fair-minded jurors. When that gambit didn't work, they rolled the dice with a Queens judge, Justice Arthur J. Cooperman of State Supreme Court.
  On the other side, supporters of Mr. Bell's family and friends have made clear their suspicion of a system that routinely absolves police officers when they shoot men -- almost invariably black men, like Mr. Bell -- who turn out to have been unarmed. Anything less than a guilty verdict, they say, would mock justice.
  We will find out soon enough what Justice Cooperman thinks. By the time you read this, he may have already announced his verdict, expected around 9 a.m. on Friday.
  He may acquit the detectives of all charges. That would most likely prompt the Bell side to say the system didn't work. Or the judge may find them guilty on all counts: manslaughter, assault and reckless endangerment for Michael Oliver and Gescard F. Isnora, and reckless endangerment for Marc Cooper. Then police officers would be talking about a systemic failure.
  There is another possibility. Justice Cooperman may split the difference. He could decide that the detectives had reason to believe they were in danger, enough to justify drawing their guns, but then fired so wantonly as to amount to reckless endangerment on the part of them all. That charge is a misdemeanor carrying a maximum one-year sentence.
  If that is indeed the result, both sides would have an opportunity to criticize the system. The detectives would probably appeal. The Bell family, already suing the city for millions of dollars, might seek federal charges, and the Police Department might start its own disciplinary action. One way or another, this sad matter will linger in the New York consciousness for some time.
  And New Yorkers are bound to have their own verdict. The betting here is that many, maybe most, would go for a split-the-difference approach. It lies somewhere between the chants of political radicals that the police wage war on African-Americans and the assertions of knee-jerk police defenders that cops can do no wrong.
  It is hard to imagine that most New Yorkers believe the detectives set out to shoot Mr. Bell and the men who were with him that night in November 2006. Except in cases of extreme misconduct, there seems to be a broad consensus that the police deserve to be cut some slack because they are often called on to make life-and-death decisions in fractions of a second.
  On the other hand, those same New Yorkers may sense that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg got it right soon after the shootings when he said that it seemed ''excessive force'' had been used and that ''it's hard to understand why 50-odd shots should be taken.'' Those bullets flew every which way; one stray hit an AirTrain terminal nearly the length of a football field away.
  Even while recognizing a possible fear factor and a firepower that enables 50 rounds to be squeezed off within seconds, people have every reason to expect maximum restraint and sound judgment from their police officers. Many cannot begin to understand how so many shots could have been fired without a pause to reassess the situation.
  More often than not, the public has a built-in detector on whether the police performed reasonably or not. The absence of mass protests in the Bell case akin to those that followed the police killing of Amadou Diallo in 1999 suggests that these detectives have gotten the benefit of the public doubt. But it doesn't mean that doubt about them and their dismal performance has vanished.
  A prosecutor, Charles A. Testagrossa, may have come as close as anyone to capturing the public mood. In his closing arguments to the judge 11 days  ago, he said that most people viewed the Bell case ''through the prism of their own prejudices'' -- seeing detectives as either ''tragic heroes'' or ''murderers.''
  ''The truth,'' Mr. Testagrossa said, ''lies somewhere between the polar extremes.''
  It usually does.
