Back in 1999, then-state Sen. David Paterson was arrested on disorderly conduct charges during a series of demonstrations against the cop-shooting death of unarmed African immigrant Amadou Diallo.
Now, almost a decade later - no longer a rabble-rousing member of the Senate minority, but rather New York's first black governor - his views on civil disobedience have changed.
Paterson told the Daily News yesterday that he would not approve if the Rev. Al Sharpton, who organized the Diallo days of rage, follows through on his vow to "close this city down" with mass demonstrations in response to the 
 verdict. 
"I certainly would not be in favor of that," Paterson said of any shutdown - even if the protests are peaceful, as vowed. "People are trying to go to work. We're trying to conduct commerce here."
"From the perspective of management of government, you never want your city shut down," he added.
The governor, who admits to being "surprised" that, given the number of shots fired, the three officers charged in the Bell shooting were cleared, insists things are different in this case.
"I understand the historical significance of civil disobedience, and too many times that was the only way to effect change," he said. "However, in this case, there is a continuing federal investigation and interdepartmental investigation. . . . We know a judge determined there was no crime. We accept that."
Reminded that in a previous political life, he likely would have been front and center in the actions Sharpton is planning, Paterson was unmoved. His role now is to "hear what the demonstration is about and recognize the symbolism of it," he said. To participate as governor would be "a little pretentious," Paterson said.
Sharpton indicated he was a bit surprised by Paterson's change - but said he still respects the governor.
"The sentiment we express is with Dr. King's style of civil disobedience in mind, which is the same sentiment he [Paterson] had in 1999 when he and his dad [Harlem political leader Basil Paterson] joined me in this style of Dr. King civil disobedience at 1 Police Plaza."
The governor's concern about Sharpton's tactics is yet another example of his remaking himself as he puts his stamp on the office he unexpectedly ascended to following the spectacular prostitution-linked fall of Eliot Spitzer last month.
During his days as a senator, Paterson sponsored legislation to require police to shoot to harm rather than kill - a move opposed by Spitzer and one that sparked the ire of police unions.
He has since disavowed the measure and withdrawn his active support for it.
Paterson is widely viewed as a liberal, given his opposition to the death penalty and support of gay marriage and abortion rights, but Sharpton has referred to the new governor as "probably the most conservative of our generation of black leadership."
"David is the one that if there was a police brutality case would say, 'I'm going to call the police unions as well; we must have balance,' " Sharpton said in Albany just prior to Paterson's March 17 swearing-in.
"I can't think of an issue that David didn't try to moderate," the rev said.
Paterson said he spoke to Sharpton on Friday after Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman's verdict.
The governor said he called Bell's fiance, Nicole Paultre Bell, after the verdict and will meet with her soon.
"As soon as it's desired, I will meet with her," Paterson said. "Whether or not a crime was committed, she's still a victim. She's a victim because her fianc was killed. It may or may not have been a crime, but everyone agrees his death was tragic. He wasn't carrying a weapon."
ebenjamin@nydailynews.com
