Police fired 50 shots at man in self-defence, judge rules
Three New York City police officers are found not guilty on criminal charges relating to the death of 
 But departmental charges may be forthcoming for the officers. Details, Page A18 
Old Montreal plan axed
Ville Marie borough mayor Benoit Labont cancels plans to close parts of St. Paul and Notre Dame Sts. to cars this summer, saying the idea needs more study by people in the neighbourhood. Details, Page A6
Opponents slam ADQ posters
Action dmocratique du Qubec posters linking the decline of French in Montreal to increased immigration has turned a by-election campaign in two Montreal ridings into a political slugfest. Details, Page A12
business
A natural dandelion blaster
A biotech firm has developed a natural product to eradicate dandelions and other broadleaf pests. Sarritor Inc. says this year's batch of natural pest-control is spoken for. Details, Page C3
Fix for troubled paper okayed
Investors have overwhelmingly approved a plan to restructure $32 billion in non-bank asset-backed commercial paper, marking a key step in the effort to revive that part of the credit market. Details, Page C4
sports
Toews sure to be hit in Quebec
As one of the few Team Canada players fluent in French, Chicago Blackhawks rookie Jonathan Toews is sure to be in big demand at the IIHF World Hockey Championship games in Quebec. Details, Page D5
Ngoudjo, Pascal seek title shots
Montreal boxers Hermann Ngoudjo and Jean Pascal headline a boxing card that will take place June 6 at Uniprix Stadium. Both fighters will be seeking a shot at a world title bout. Details, Page D7
culture
The patience of Pagliaro
A Governor General's Award won't rush Quebec's "rock 'n' roller national" into finishing his first album in 20 years. Michel Pagliaro's too busy creating new sounds from thousands of "pieces of tone, guitar, bass and whatever." Details, Page E1
Inside a mother's mind
In her first project since becoming a mom, Helen Hunt plays a woman who's desperate to have a child in Then She Found Me, which she also directed. Details, Page E2
