INTERNATIONAL
  ARGENTINA'S FARMERS
  In Revolt Over Taxes
  When Argentina's government decided to impose higher taxes on farm profits in March, it set off a rural revolt, with enraged farmers blocking roads around the country for three weeks. Since then, the government has been trying to quell fears at the negotiating table, but some farmers say the talks are yet more proof that President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner does not understand them.   PAGE 6
  A SNUB FOR ZIMBABWE
  Angola announced that a Chinese ship bearing arms for its longtime ally Zimbabwe would not be allowed to unload them while docked in Angola. It was the latest and most surprising evidence of success in the international pressure campaign against the Zimbabwean government.  PAGE 12 
  NATIONAL
  NEED A BICYCLE?
  Here. Take One.
  The bicycle-centric cultures of Europe have long made getting about on two wheels more simple than it is in most American cities. But, under a new public-private program in the nation's capital, people will soon be able to borrow a bicycle anytime they need one.   PAGE 23
  THE TOXIN-EATING FUNGUS
  When the residents of Fort Bragg, Calif., faced the need to clean up the dioxin that pollutes the site of a former lumber mill or risk losing a $4.2 million grant for a coastal trail, they considered the options. Among them: mushrooms.   PAGE 26
  METRO
  TEMPERS BANK AND FLARE
  In Wake of Bell Verdict
  While the 
 verdict may have dampened the spirits and responses of some family and friends, one burned high and hot. Nicole Paultre Bell, the woman to marry Mr. Bell before his death and previously gentle in demeanor, vowed to hold the city accountable, saying the the justice system had ''let her down.''  Page 35
  OUT OF THE POOL
  For the regulars at the adult morning swim program at the Boys and Girls Clubs of Northern Westchester, there was more to it than just exercise. There was family, in the broad sense. Connections. Caring. And so when the club decided to cancel the program, citing cost, an uproar followed. Our Towns, by Peter Applebome.   PAGE 31
  THE BATTLE FOR COPIERS
  Most legislative bodies confer some special privileges on the majority party, but few can top New York's Legislature for extremes. So for Democrats hoping to take control of the State Senate this November for the first time in decades, there's even more at stake than just controlling legislation. Like getting new office supplies.  PAGE 31
  SUNDAY BUSINESS
  WASN'T ANYBODY MINDING
  The Wall Street Store?
  In case you have been wondering how the credit crisis on Wall Street became such a mess -- wondering about fail-safe devices, government watchdogs, ratings agencies and the like -- you may well want to read a speech on the whole thing given by an investor named David Einhorn. Or at least the CliffsNotes version.   PAGE 1
  HOME-BREWED CAR FUEL
  A fellow in California has teamed with a Silicon Valley entrepreneur to create a home ethanol system that will be about as large as a stackable washer-dryer, sell for $9,995, and produce fuel for cars at a cost of, say, $1 a gallon. Sound good? Well, ''skepticism is a virtue,'' one expert says.   PAGE 5
  WARMING TO THE VILLAIN
  The evil businessman has been a reliable film villain since even before people in movies talked. (Pick your favorite: Mr. Potter? Gordon Gekko? Other?) But some coming releases suggest that moviemakers might be rethinking the archetype, if only slightly.   PAGE 7
  Competing With iPhones   1
  Filling the Rice Bowl   8
  A Virtual Law Library   5
  SPORTS
  FRESH START FOR BURTON
  After Four Off-Years
  There was a time when Jeff Burton was considered a champion in waiting on the Nascar circuit, especially after he finished third in Cup point standings in 2000. Then came less impressive finishes and a flame-out with Roush Racing four years ago. But he has regained some status this season.    PAGE 8
  PLAYOFF CHANCES DWINDLE
  Lopsided matchups and sluggish TV ratings for college football's Bowl Championship Series this year gave rise to talk about potential change in the postseason structure. But with the annual B.C.S. meetings starting Sunday, optimism has turned to pessimism, and talk of change appears to be just that.  PAGE 6
  MAGAZINE
  OUT OF THE CLOSET
  And Toward the Altar
  Why would gay men in their 20s rush to marry? Maybe it has something to do with gay teenagers' coming out earlier and being able to experience a gay adolescence, Benoit Denizet-Lewis writes. And with all that out of the way, he adds, they just want what they've seen espoused by the mainstream.  PAGE 28
  OBITUARIES
  CAMERON ARGETSINGER, 87
  His love of speed cultivated on country roads led him to help revive road racing in postwar America and establish Watkins Glen, N.Y., as a stop on the Formula One circuit.  PAGE 29
  STYLES
  A NEW CHALLENGE 
  For Some Marriages
  It's a situation not specifically anticipated in the traditional better-worse, richer-poorer marital vows: What if one member of the original pair has a sex-change operation? The law, as you might expect, is not exactly prepared for that either, as some anxious couples are finding out.   PAGE 1
  NARROWCASTING FOR MATES
  Let's say you're an Ayn Rand fan. A really, really big fan: Her writing inspired you to turn from devout Christianity to atheism. You want a partner who shares your outlook on life, but how to find one? Look online, of course, among the growing number of niche dating sites.  PAGE 9
  For Mom, Under $40   3
  Cocktails and Cheddar   6
  Night Out: Jamie Lidell  4
  TRAVEL
  SEEKING WHAT ADAMS
  Saw Through His Lens
  Ansel Adams first visited Yosemite National Park when he was 14, and he accidentally snapped a topsy-turvy photograph that became one of his lifelong favorites. Today, professional and novice photographers still go to Yosemite, trying to retrace his path -- and, perhaps, capture a bit of his magic.   PAGE 3
  A MIXED BLESSING
  Its grand Buddhist temples and tucked-away shrines, its mountains and trickling canals, its spring-blossoming cherry trees and autumn-flaming maples, make Kyoto perhaps Japan's prettiest city. So of course it's packed with tourists. And expensive -- is it possible to find tranquillity on a budget?  PAGE 7
  36 Hours: Naples, Italy  13
  ARTS & LEISURE
  WHAT ICONOCLASTS OF '68
  Tell Us, 40 Years Later
  Legend has it that the disturbances that convulsed France in the spring of 1968 began at the movies and came full circle when, three months later, the Cannes Film Festival was halted. New Yorkers can mark the 40th anniversary of that year with a program on Jean-Luc Godard at the Film Forum and a wide-ranging series at Lincoln Center. A review by A. O. Scott.  PAGE 1 
  MADONNA, BACK TO ROOTS
  Madonna's 11th studio album, ''Hard Candy,'' is devoted to the instant gratification of a musical sweet tooth, Jon Pareles writes,  the kind of collection a record company craves in the current embattled market: a set of catchy, easily digestible, mass-appeal songs by a star who's not taking chances.  PAGE 1 
  BEHIND THE COVERS
  The ''I want my MTV'' campaign made him one of the most influential admen of his generation. But among admirers of brilliant design, George Lois is most esteemed for the covers he created for Esquire, 31 of which are in an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art.   PAGE 1 
  Mamet on Fight Films  19 
  The 'Dude' Campaign  27 
  Alastair Macaulay:  Legacy of Jerome Robbins  8  
  REAL ESTATE
  LIVING LARGE
  And Outdoors
  Much of New York City is indoors, to adapt a line from the humorist Dave Barry, so it might stand to reason that outdoor spaces like terraces and balconies would be at a premium, especially at this time of year. But not everybody finds them worth the trouble.   PAGE 1
  BOOK REVIEW
  MARTIN AMIS,
  Catastrophist
  In ''The Second Plane,'' his collection of essays about Sept. 11, Martin Amis substitutes insult for analysis and writes about history and politics as if Orwell had never lived, Leon Wieseltier writes. For all of Mr. Amis's testimonies about the event's transformative impact, there is at least one way in which he has been thoroughly untouched by the atrocity: he is still busy with the pursuit of extraordinary sentences.  PAGE 1 
  AUTOMOBILES
  G.M. CREATES HYBRIDS
  In Unexpected Places
  General Motors has installed an innovative hybrid system in a couple of its larger sport utilities and plans to add the system to other models. In addition to considering the higher costs, prospective buyers might want to reflect on whether the car-based crossovers that are inherently more efficient might be a better choice.    PAGE 1
  WEEK IN REVIEW
  A DECADE OF DESPAIR
  For Presidential Hopes
  The campaign season has been filled with references to the historic possibilities posed by the remaining two Democratic candidates for president. But Senator John McCain has a historic role of his own to play: He is the latest -- and almost certainly the last -- hope for Americans born in the 1930s to send one of their own to the White House.  PAGE 1
  TESTING DEMOCRATIC UNITY
  Democrats promise that despite the rancor of this primary season, all will be forgiven in the end and the party will rally around the nominee. They cite past experience  as proof. But will the polarization exposed this year be so deep that it cannot be bridged?   PAGE 4
  EDITORIAL: 
  Is Trade the Problem?
  This country deserves a fact-based discussion of what is causing the dislocations in American workers' lives, how much trade is to blame and what government can do to help.  PAGE 11
  EDITORIAL: 
  Private Sector Spoils
  Congress has made a start in plugging the multibillion-dollar loophole that the White House let slip into its promised crackdown on fraudulent contractors.  PAGE 11
  EDITORIAL: 
  Laura Berg's Letter
  Laura Berg was threatened with a sedition investigation after she wrote a letter to the editor denouncing the Bush administration's bungling of Hurricane Katrina and the Iraq war.   PAGE 11
  OP-ED:
  Maureen Dowd
  Barack is a Jell-O fellow. But Hillary is hungry for more than chips and dip.  PAGE 12
  OP-ED:
  Frank Rich
  The prolonged and bitter battle for the Democratic nomination may lull John McCain into unjustified complacency.  PAGE 13
  OP-ED:
  Elizabeth Edwards, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress and the wife of the former Democratic presidential candidate, on why voters know about the horse race, but not about the issues. Hint: It's the news media's fault.  PAGE 12
