A suicidal gunman at City College - who told cops, "I want to die like 

" - held one woman hostage at gunpoint after stalking another yesterday, police sources said.   
Only after officers convinced the student to drop his weapon did they discover that it merely looked like a lethal .44-caliber revolver. It was, in fact, a loaded pellet gun.  
Kirk Hanley, 22, of Brooklyn, had several suicide notes and a journal on him when he was taken into custody, police said.  
And law-enforcement sources told The Post that the crazed student mentioned being killed by cops like Bell, both during the terrifying standoff and in his journal.  
"I want to die like 

" a source quoted Hanley as saying.  
Hanley began following a 20-year-old female student, who knows him, at 135th Street and Convent Avenue as she walked to CCNY's Harlem campus at around 2:40 p.m.  
When he allegedly showed the young woman his gun, she fled to the school's Financial Aid office and reported it to a counselor in a private room. Campus security and cops were immediately alerted, said school President Gregory H. Williams.  
Hanley followed, but stayed in the waiting room, which was full of about a dozen people.  
As campus security approached Hanley, he took the replica revolver from his backpack and grabbed a woman who was standing next to him, Williams said.  
At the same time, NYPD Officers Daniel Laperuta and Steve Jagaroo entered the room, drew their guns on Hanley, cops said.  
The deranged student yelled, "Back off!" at the cops as he threatened his hostage - then pointed the gun at himself, police sources said.  
As the cops tried to calm him, Hanley allegedly aimed the weapon once more at the frightened young woman, then finally put it down and was subdued by the officers about five minutes after the drama began.  
He was taken to St. Luke's Hospital for a psych exam and was charged with criminal possession of a weapon, reckless endangerment, criminal possession of a loaded firearm and kidnapping.  
Reached on her cellphone, the woman Hanley had followed said only that she was "fine."  
Her mom said her daughter was in a class last year with Hanley.  
On Hanley's MySpace page, he has pictures of himself attacking the camera with a butcher knife.  
He lists his "heroes" as Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh, "Cho" - a reference to Virginia Tech killer Seung-Hui Cho - and "Reb and V," the nicknames of Columbine gunmen Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold.  
At Hanley's apartment in Brooklyn, one neighbor described him as a quiet loner but added that he "always seemed very peaceful, very calm."  
Additional reporting by Murray Weiss, Erin Calabrese and Frank Rosario 
