FISTFIGHTS ERUPTED OUTSIDE the Queens courthouse after the 

 verdict was read yesterday - but the fury on the streets did not spread to the rest of the city. 
Cops quickly contained the first firestorm after the three cops who killed Bell were acquitted, but many New Yorkers - especially African-Americans - were still seething.
"If Nicole and the parents had not asked us to be calm, we'd be burning the city now," said protester Lloyd Nelson, referring to Bell's fiance, Nicole Paultre Bell, and the slain man's parents.
"This is as calm as we are going to be."
"It could be my son tomorrow!" chimed in a woman who identified herself as Cynthia, one of the dozens wearing Bell's face on hats, T-shirts and buttons. "That judge is more guilty than the officers who shot 

"
Sorrow and sadness were widespread across Bell's neighborhood in Jamaica - and was clearly visible in the red-rimmed eyes of Bell's pastor, Lester Williams, who had led a march to the courthouse steps before the verdict.
"We accept the verdict, but this is not the end," Williams said. "I have never seen an injustice like this before. Fifty shots and no one is being held responsible."
Bell was killed on Nov. 25, 2006, on what would have been his wedding day. He was sitting in his car with two buddies around the corner from Kalua Cabaret, a strip joint where he had his bachelor party.
About 300 protesters chanting, "No justice, no peace," marched last night from the courthouse to the spot where Bell was killed. The club shut its doors for the night "out of respect for the community," a man inside said.
"New York City needs to be outraged," said demonstrator Jesse Ehrensaft, 31, a social worker from Jackson Heights. "People do not agree justice was served. Fifty shots is clearly murder."
Across the color line, many white New Yorkers expressed sympathy for the Bell family but many gave the detectives the benefit of the doubt.
"If I'd been on the jury, I wouldn't have known what to believe," said Steffan Aletti, who lives in midtown. "There was too much conflict and confusion in the witnesses testimony. . . . I think the acquittal was warranted."
Joan Boyle, who lives in Tudor City, said, "We should respect the verdict."
"I hope there's not an effort to denigrate the system, even though you may disagree with the verdict," she said. "I try to put myself in the place of those cops who are there night after night after night outside a well-known drug and strip joint."
mgrace@nydailynews.com
