They felt angry and defiant and sad. Mostly, they felt empty. 
  Three detectives had been on trial for a range of charges, from manslaughter to misdemeanor reckless endangerment. But 

 survivors and their supporters left the courthouse in Queens on Friday, after seven weeks of testimony and 17 months of mourning, with nothing but not guilty. 
  ''We just all gasped, like, 'Wow, how could you throw out this whole case?''' said Les Paultre, the father of Nicole Paultre Bell, who was to marry Mr. Bell the day  he was fatally shot by the police outside the strip club where his bachelor party had been  held. ''That's basically what the judge did. He just threw out this whole case.''
  After Justice Arthur J. Cooperman read his verdict to the packed courtroom, a momentary silence was followed by sobs and words of disbelief  from Mr. Bell's relatives and supporters. Later  they headed to a cemetery on Long Island and bowed their heads over red flowers that marked Mr. Bell's grave. 
  Ms. Paultre Bell and her parents then retreated to their home a block from the beach in Far Rockaway, while their chief spokesman, the Rev. Al Sharpton, voiced outrage at the verdict in a radio program  broadcast from the headquarters of the National Action Network, an organization he founded.
  Mr. Sharpton, who has led protests over police shootings for decades, promised to lead protests -- he said he expected some people to be arrested -- possibly on Wall Street, in front of 1 Police Plaza, and perhaps outside the judge's home, starting as soon as Saturday. He also talked of a possible boycott, though he did not specify whom or what might be boycotted.
  ''We're going to demonstrate to the government that New Yorkers will not take this abortion of justice lying down,'' Mr. Sharpton said. 
  He took particular umbrage at what he contended was Justice Cooperman's mention of the criminal history of the victims, and his comment that he found details of the testimony of  Trent Benefield and Joseph Guzman,  Mr. Bell's friends who survived the shooting,  unbelievable.
  ''The fact is, judge, he was shot,'' Mr. Sharpton practically spat. ''Duh, does it take a genius to figure out that a victim now has to give you a clinical definition of when he was shot? Maybe he didn't remember because he was in pain and maybe he didn't remember where because he was in the middle of running for his life.''
  Mr. Sharpton also  argued that Justice Cooperman's ruling set the table for federal civil rights charges. 
  ''People with records,'' he said, ''do not lose their right to not be shot by police.''
  Some of Mr.  Bell's supporters who had gathered outside the courthouse on Friday morning said the judge's decision was the latest in a string of verdicts that condoned the killing of an innocent black man by a New York police officer. Two of the detectives who faced trial over Mr. Bell's killing are black.
  ''We got the door slammed in our faces is how a lot of people feel,'' said Michael Hardy, a lawyer who represents Mr. Benefield, Mr. Guzman and Ms. Paultre Bell in a  civil suit that is pending against New York City. Mr. Hardy added, ''It tells you that no matter what, because of who you are and the community you come from, you will get nothing.''
  When Justice Cooperman pronounced the men not guilty in State Supreme Court in Queens, Ms. Paultre Bell, 23,  jumped up and sped out of the courtroom, weeping. A number  supporters followed, even as court officers urged them to remain in their seats until the judge had stepped down.
  Outside, hundreds of people spilled into the street. ''They're murderers,'' one man yelled, referring to the detectives. ''They're going to rot in hell where they belong.'' 
  Someone held a sign that read: ''People's Verdict: Guilty.''
  At one point, Mr. Guzman sat on a stoop outside the courthouse, head in hands.
  Harold James,  who had organized the bachelor party that preceded Mr. Bell's death, scowled. ''Don't talk to me, man,'' he said. ''It's not a good day.''
  Led by Mr. Sharpton, the Bell family, Mr. Guzman and Mr. Benefield left the courthouse without comment. As they rounded Queens Boulevard toward a parking lot, reporters and photographers swarmed around them.
  One of the Bell supporters got into a shoving match with an Associated Press photographer. The supporter's friends tried to restrain him and police officers rushed to regain order.
  Hours later, outside Mr. Sharpton's headquarters in Harlem, three young black men staged a protest, one of them dressed as a Klansman  with ''N.Y.P.D.'' written on the sheet draped over his head. Members of Mr. Sharpton's organization asked the men to leave, saying, ''We don't need this.'' But the men refused to go, and there was arguing for 10 minutes until they finally left.
  Earlier, at Nassau Knolls Cemetery and Memorial Park in Port Washington, Ms. Paultre Bell, who took Mr. Bell's name after his death, took a call on Mr. Sharpton's cellphone from Gov. David A. Paterson and placed flowers on Mr. Bell's grave. ''She promised they wouldn't stop fighting for justice,'' Mr. Sharpton said later. 
  Throughout Friday afternoon, several people came and went from Ms. Paultre Bell's home, including Mr. Guzman, who declined to speak with reporters. Miles away in Jamaica, Mr. Benefield, wearing a T-shirt bearing Mr. Bell's picture, sat on a bench with friends in the courtyard of his housing complex. 
  Earlier, Mr. Benefield told reporters that he was going to fight on, insisting the officers had committed a crime and ''have to pay a price.'' 
  Ms. Paultre Bell's father said that the family received a taunting telephone call Friday afternoon and that the caller identification suggested it came from someone at the Sergeants Benevolent Association, a police supervisors' union. The association's president, Edward D. Mullins, said he would investigate. ''If it happened in our office, I want to know who did it,'' he said.
  Ms. Paultre Bell, Mr. Guzman, Mr. Benefield and Mr. Bell's parents, William and Valerie, are expected to speak at Mr. Sharpton's headquarters Saturday.
  ''We're not going to give up,'' Ms. Paultre Bell's father said on Friday afternoon. ''We're going to keep pushing forward because Sean did not die in vain, and these young men should not have been stopped in the first place.''
