REBUFFED BY ONE WOMAN, a lovelorn student took another coed hostage at City College yesterday and held a gun to her head in a crowded waiting room, cops said.
"He said if anybody moves he'll kill me," the hostage, Elaishun Martin, 21, told the Daily News. 
The harrowing incident unfolded just after 2 p.m. when the suspect, Kirk Hanley, 21, got into an argument with a 20-year-old woman who rejected him for a date, police said.
The woman became frightened by Hanley's reaction and went to the Wille Administration Building on the Harlem campus, where she works in the financial aid office. She alerted a counselor, who contacted campus security. Campus officers called the NYPD for assistance.
Security officers confronted Hanley in a waiting room outside the financial aid office, asking him to leave with them, campus spokeswoman Mary Lou Edmondson said.
Witnesses said Hanley became agitated, pulled a pistol from his book bag and randomly grabbed Martin by her hair, pointing the gun at her head.
Martin, a psychology student, said Hanley muttered something about the 
 police shooting case and yelled at the arriving NYPD cops, "Are you going to make me do this?"
Communications student Johnny Ochoa, 19, said Hanley kept repeating, " 'I've been waiting 21 years. All I needed was help.' "
Cops ordered the 15 to 20 students in the area to hit the floor, said Ahmed Ishtiak, 20.
"It happened so suddenly, in a second," Ishtiak said. "Everyone was running."
He said Hanley, of Flatbush, Brooklyn, released Martin, but did not immediately follow orders to lay down his gun.
"He was just walking around and he put the gun to his head," said Ishtiak, adding that Hanley was yelling, "I don't want to live anymore."
Cops screamed at Hanley, "Drop the gun and no one will hurt you." When Hanley dropped the weapon, police tackled him and dragged him out of the building, witnesses said.
Police said Hanley's weapon turned out to be pellet gun that looked like a real .45-caliber pistol. Cops said Hanley had a suicide note in his pocket.
He was taken to the psychiatric ward at St. Luke's Hospital for observation. Cops later charged him with criminal possession of a weapon, reckless endangerment and kidnapping.
"I'm not supposed to be at work and receive a phone call like this," Martin's mother, Helen Martin of Harlem, told The News last night as she emerged from the 26th Precinct stationhouse with her daughter.
A friend of Hanley's, who requested anonymity, said the suspect seemed normal when he spoke to him last week.
"He had a lot of questions about the military. He wanted to be a cop," said the friend, who was recently discharged from the Army. "He's a normal kid. I'm shocked. Kirk just needs some help."
tsamuels@nydailynews.com
