It is documented and accepted as fact that it was Carter who got the hostages in Iran released, not Reagan. the only thing that Reagan can get credit for is a sense of good timing, because all of the groundwork that Carter laid came to a head and resulted in their release a couple of days after Reagan took office. He did not sit there wringing his hands, he sat there doing what he was supposed to do, and that was protecting the American people and securing their release from Iran. And if you think someone is a wimp because they believe in a peaceful solution to a problem, then you've got to be a Republican.
First of all, corn is not the only source for any type of alternative fuels, biofuels. For some reason, that's the one that they're concentrating on, but there have been different research projects that have successfully made ethanol and alternative fuels, believe it or not, from recycling materials. So why they're just focusing on corn, I don't know, ask the farmers. As far as there not being enough refineries in America, what are you going to do? Build more refineries to refine something that there's not going to be any more left of in a decade or two? Isn't that a waste of money? 
If you really, really want to support the man who brought us the spaceport tax, vote for Commissioner McCamley for Congress. I'm sure he'll find some more taxes for ya' if he ever gets to Washington.
The fines from New Mexico OSHA are going to be very insignificant compared to the amount of money that the city will settle for the worker who was killed's family. Try and keep this out in the public eye and not let them make a settlement and keep it hidden, because this is in the public interest. The city too often settles these civil suits and keeps the amount of the settlement hidden so the public won't know.
Driving to work today, within the span of just four minutes of my commute, a white EBID pickup blew a stop sign, sped, tailgated, and ran not one, but two red lights before flying into the distance. What gives, driver? Was there an irrigation emergency at 7:45 a.m. that desperately needed your attention? First off, Cruces, get red-light cameras installed everywhere. Second, police, where the heck are you?
One of the things we could do to stop escalating cots for the consumer due to the increase in gas prices, which, of course, raises the costs of delivering these products to stores is we should go back to the old ways of shipping things by train. It's economical, it's better for the environment, in a lot of ways, it's faster. Maybe we should go back to that. Then, we wouldn't need all that gas for all the trucks. We need to change our way of life and or way of looking at things. I know it's not easy, but we have to do it and face facts.
Where was the Sun-News on Thursday, April 24, at 12 noon in front of City Hall where a dedicated group of people had assembled for an anti-Iraq war demonstration? Does the Sun-New take sides against or for the war? A newspaper is supposed to give out the news and show up where our people have an interest. Shame on you, Sun-News.
Everyone has a tempter to a certain extent. As far as a temper in the White House, I'd rather have Hillary in the White House maybe throwing a glass or a plate every once in a while than a war monger like John McCain whose response in a temper tantrum would be to drop a bomb on somebody. Big difference.
Looks like Dial-A-Ride is getting a real workout since the RoadRunner bus schedule took effect. Please, don't ruin Dial-A-Ride, too.
One way I learned to save about 5 percent from stores I shop (in) weekly is to check my register receipt with the store's advertised prices. I almost always get cash back. The odds are better than Vegas!
Your story on the bus schedule was wrong. If you check the new bus schedule, you'll see the schedule went from 40 minutes to 60 minutes, not 30 minutes, and if you go to the transfer point, you'll see the bus is leaving about 10 minutes late   they run 10 to 20 minutes late every day.
To all you so-called "neighbors" who keep your dogs outside while they are away at work and forget that your barking dog is invading on the rights of your neighbor and others in your neighborhood that work at different shifts, who forgets to provide food, water and shelter for that nine to 10 hours you are away, you need to find a better way to care for your animals or be turned into Animal Control for the barking nuisance or the animal's neglect. Remember, your neighbor has just as many rights as you, and one of those rights is to be free from nuisances and not have to watch your animal suffer from your reckless neglect.
Somebody lovingly referred to "wacko Democrats" today. Well, I'll tell you something. I'll take 100 "wacko Democrats" over one power-hungry, arrogant, aggressive, oil-company friendly, patron of the rich, Republican.
To the teachers at Gadsden Middle School regarding the health and safety violations, first of all, don't take it. Here's some suggestions: File a class-action lawsuit for violation of safety policy, file a worker's compensation claims and be prepared to be psychologically harassed or lose your job, or three, contact Governor Richardson. Your options are varied, but you've got to take a stand.
There are two people in this town that need to be...tarred and feathered and run out of town on a rail: Chancellor Martin at New Mexico State University and the editor of this paper.
After reading the Sound Off! and what I've been reading in the Sun-News for the past few days or weeks, today's, Thursday's (April 24) paper, ganging up on Mr. Gallagher, I would like to say that the president of the university should have a sign that says, "The buck stops here." He has totally done nothing about it, and evidently this has been going on for some time. So, somebody had to know about it, and I think that all these people that are involved should resign their positions, including Martin, the president of the university. He should have done something a long time ago, and he should resign. I don't think the people of Las Cruces have any faith in him anymore   at least I don't.
I just heard that the three cops involved in the New York 
 shooting were let off, all charges dropped. These three men were involved with shooting an unarmed, black man 50 times outside a New York club in 2006 the night before his wedding. Fifty times! And they were only charged with manslaughter and reckless endangerment in the first place, charges that ended up being liquidated, all said? Are you kidding me? I am livid. This is out of control.
