Ballymartin 1-12 Downpatrick 2-06
DOWNPATRICK suffered defeat in their first league match of the new season at the hands of impressive Ballymartin, writes Ciaran Daly.
This Division Two Clash was fiercely contested throughout but Ballymartin made home advantage pay and deservedly regis-tered their first two points.
Downpatrick, struggling with injuries, fielded a largely youthful and experimental side with five minors stepping into the starting line-up. 
Ballymartin, in contrast, played with the consistency of an experienced team and were able to make their mark on the game from the early stages.
Cathal McDowell scored the first of his seven points to open up the scoring for Ballymartin on the five minutes mark.
Downpatrick responded almost immediately when quick thinking from Damian Turley released Neil Cunningham who duly pointed to bring the sides level.
Crucially Downpatrick did not score again until the 24th minute. Most of their scoreless spell was spent camped in their own half as Ballymartin began to dominate possession in midfield and the half forward line in particular.
The Mourne men pointed a free before stretching their lead in the 14th minute with an excellently taken goal by corner forward Conor Rodgers.
A high ball was lofted into the box. When it was broken down Rodgers was quickest to react and he kept his composure to find the back of the net.
Ballymartin built on what was now a four points advantage by scoring a further four points without reply, three of which came from the boot of the on-form McDowell.
In truth the Downpatrick defence was having trouble dealing with the fluency and movement of the Ballymartin forwards. When the Hoops were able to work the ball forward the home defence stood firm and prevented Downpatrick from putting scores on the board.
Ballymartin dominance continued when centre half forward Ronan McManus burst through the visiting defence before wisely opting to fist a point that extended their lead to 1-6 to 0-1.
With an eight points advantage there was a sense that Ballymartin were beginning to run away with it. Neil Cunningham, however, restored a sense of belief within The Hoops by converting a free to reduce the margin to seven.
A scuffle on the sideline resulted in a player from each team getting a warning from the referee. This altercation seemed to have the effect of kick-starting Downpatrick into life.
John Smith notably became more involved in play and Downpatrick suddenly looked more threatening going forward as a result.
A mazy run down the right wing from Jarleth Brannigan created room for Damian Turley who was able to lob a pass into the path of Cunningham, who fisted to the net with conviction.
The goal lifted the visitors and took them to within four points of their opponents.
The first half, which had been dominated by Ballymartin, ended on a positive note for Downpatrick with the scores sitting at 1-6 to 1-2.
Downpatrick looked to build on their momentum at the start of the second half with substitutes 
 and Carl Oakes being introduced to the fray.
However there was little that could be done to stop the opening score of the second half going to Michael Higgins who finished what had been a superb passage of play from Ballymartin with a fine point to extend the Lilywhites' lead to five points.
McDowell added to Downpatrick's woes by converting another free ten minutes into the half.
As was the pattern for the entire match Downpatrick refused to surrender and some spirited play from the Hoops saw substitute Peter McKenna grab a welcome point.
The endeavour and attitude Downpatrick will doubtlessly have been seen as a positive aspect of their play and one which management will be keen to draw from in future.
Outplayed for large parts of the game the away team seemed dogged in their determination not to be beaten.
Darren O'Hanlon pounced on some slack defending by scoring a point directly from a goal-kick. Downpatrick though fired back with two points in quick succession, from Carl Oakes and Peter Turley, to reduce the deficit to 1-9 to 1-5.
Almost on cue, just as the Hoops were beginning to build some momentum, McDowell pointed another free on 18 minutes.
This seemed to compose Ballymartin with O'Hanlon and Fitzmorris in particular pulling the strings in midfield.
Young Downpatrick goalkeeper James Deeny pulled off his second fantastic save of the night to ensure his team did not go another goal down.
There was little he could do though to prevent Damian Magennis from opening up a six points lead with five minutes remaining.
With time running out Downpatrick pushed Peter Turley further forward and targeted the big midfielder with some direct balls into the danger area.
The tactic paid dividends as two minutes from time Turley was able to field the ball close to goal and blast home.
With the score at 2-05 to 1-11 and a few minutes of injury time left to play Downpatrick began to believe they could conjure up an escape act Houdini would have been proud of.
But in the final minute of play Ballymartin's Magennis got the insurance point the home side needed to put the result of the match beyond doubt.
Ballymartin will be upbeat about their prospects of getting out of Division 2 this year after a solid display against a spirited Downpatrick side.
Downpatrick themselves can take a lot away from the match despite their loss.
The collection of young players brought into the team looked comfortable playing at senior level and their perseverance will be a major bonus to them throughout the remaining matches in their league campaign.
Ballymartin: Gavin, S Brannigan, Cunningham, P Fitzpatrick, M Higgins (0-1), J Fitzpatrick, Doran, Fit Morris, O'Hanlon (0-1), Magennis (0-2), McManus (0-1), McDowell (0-7), Rodgers (1-0), Rooney, J Fitzpatrick (Subs) L Byrne.
Downpatrick: J Deeny, Breen, Carville, Kearney, G Collins, McCauley, R Starkey, P Turley (1-1), Gracey, Trainor, D Turley, N Cunningham (1-2), J Brannigan, Boyd, Smith (Subs) S Bell, C Oakes (0-1), P McKenna (0-1)
