THE QUEENS DISTRICT attorney defended his office's handling of the 
 trial yesterday, despite a lackluster assessment by the judge who cleared the police of all charges. 
"We did our job," District Attorney Richard Brown said at a press conference following the verdict.
"The court has now spoken, and it's now up to us to do everything in our power to make certain that we learn from that which occurred and to do whatever we can to make certain that it never occurs again," he said.
Brown's office endured stiff criticism from some in the victim's family early in the case for failing to prosecute aggressively enough.
Lead prosecutor Charles Testagrossa, standing at Brown's right hand, defended his team's case, calling the Bell trial "the most difficult case I've ever had to try" in his 31 years on the job.
"You try a case like this, you're going to become a lightning rod for criticism. This is not an easy road," Testagrossa said.
"Justice is supposed to be for everybody, that includes people that have had phony convictions, or arrests, and it includes police officers as well. This is what we had to do, and we did it as best we could."
Despite the loss, Testagrossa and Brown praised Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman.
"I accept his verdict and I urge that all fair-minded people do the same," Brown said.
Cooperman said prosecutors failed to meet their burden of proof, in part because of failures among their witnesses.
In particular, Cooperman attacked the "criminal convictions" and "the demeanor" of some witnesses, in an apparent reference to the hostile testimony of Joseph Guzman on the stand.
Testagrossa defended Guzman.
"I thought he was appropriately angry," Testagrossa said.
Brown said he discussed the case with the U.S. Attorney's office and offered his cooperation should they decide to press a civil rights case.
"These defendants and the others that were involved still have a number of hurdles to cross before someone says they were fully exonerated," he said.
nbode@nydailynews.com
