NICOLE PAULTRE BELL, teary-eyed but tenacious, vowed yesterday to champion demonstrations around the city over the acquittal of three cops in her fianc's 50-shot slaying.
"Every march, every rally, I'm going to be right up front," Paultre Bell said, breaking her silence for the first time since the cops were cleared Friday.
"The justice system let me down," Paultre Bell said, her voice strong, her message clear. "They killed Sean all over again. That's what it felt like to us." 
Her commitment echoed a vow made a day earlier by 

 father. At his son's graveside shortly after the verdict was read, William Bell gave his consent "to shut this city down" through a series of nonviolent protests.
The Rev. Al Sharpton, who introduced Paultre Bell at yesterday's rally, said a massive citywide demonstration would occur within the next two weeks.
The three NYPD detectives were cleared of all charges in the 50-shot barrage that killed 

 a 23-year-old father of two, on his wedding day.
"They've shown they will not hold the police responsible," Sharpton said yesterday in a fiery address from his Harlem headquarters. "Well guess what? If you won't, we will."
Paultre Bell wore an all-black mourning outfit, with a button bearing the face of her slain fianc. Sharpton, in similarly somber clothes, stressed that the demonstrations - which he called a "freedom brigade" - would be peaceful.
"Anyone who can't control themselves can't be a part of this movement," Sharpton said, urging those incensed by the ruling to sign up at his National Action Network.
The crowd, gathered at the headquarters to hear Paultre Bell speak, responded to the call for demonstrations.
"Shut it down! Shut it down!" they chanted. Many in the crowd then launched an impromptu protest march along Lenox Ave. - perhaps a small harbinger of Sharpton's grand plan.
Sharpton provided no specifics for the protest, but quoted Martin Luther King's call for "massive civil disobedience" as an agent for change.
Sharpton said more details would emerge during a Tuesday meeting in Manhattan. The intent of the protests, Sharpton said, was to make the city "stand still and realize you do not have the right to shoot down unarmed individuals without probable cause."
Sharpton added that civil rights leaders from around the nation will be in New York today to press for federal civil rights charges against acquitted Detectives Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper.
Paultre Bell was expected to visit Washington tomorrow as part of that effort, which several legal experts have described as an uphill battle.
Oliver, Isnora and Cooper have remained mostly in seclusion. Oliver went to Mass in New Jersey late Friday and Cooper emerged briefly yesterday from his suburban Middletown home to mow the lawn.
"Right now I can't make any comment," Cooper said. "I'm being advised [by] my attorneys. I would love to talk with you, but I can't at this time."
Cooper - the only one of the acquitted cops to offer an apology to the Bell family - added he was hoping for some privacy.
Neighbors praised the 18-year police veteran as kind and helpful, a great husband and father. His next-door neighbor said she was certain Cooper's "I'm sorry" after the acquittal was heartfelt.
"I know he means it," said the neighbor, who gave her name only as Millie. "I know the kind of person he is, and he means well. I know that [the Cooper family has] been tormented by this."
Sharpton took particular aim yesterday at Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman, who handed down Friday's verdict in the emotionally charged case.
He threatened demonstrations outside Cooperman's home, and promised to investigate the veteran jurist's background. Sharpton was particularly incensed by Cooperman's remarks about the criminal past and courtroom demeanor of prosecution witnesses.
"These factors played a significant part in the people's ability to prove their case beyond a reasonable doubt and had the effect of eviscerating [their] credibility," Cooperman said.
The judge was referring to two star prosecution witnesses, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, the survivors of the Nov. 25, 2006, shooting. Both had rap sheets before the violence, which occurred outside the Kalua Cabaret in the aftermath of Bell's bachelor party.
And Guzman was particularly combative on the witness stand while testifying, at one point announcing he has no respect for any of the defendants.
Sharpton, calling the judge's remarks "an insult," said "there's nowhere else in this city where demeanor and background are a factor."
Guzman joined Sharpton and Bell yesterday, expressing his pain at the verdict and support for the protest.
Cooperman, in rendering his decision, considered a pair of competing scenarios: The undercover officers were reckless and overreacted when they opened fire, or the victims were intoxicated hoodlums who instigated the episode.
Deputy Police Commissioner Paul Browne said the reaction to the much-anticipated verdict was quiet across the city yesterday. He said he expected the protests to be peaceful.
"The vigils and demonstrations related to the Bell case to date have not been violent," he said. "We have no reason to expect otherwise now."
lmcshane@nydailynews.com
