THREE detectives were acquitted of all charges last night in the 50-shot killing of an unarmed groom-to-be on his wedding day, a case that put the NYPD at the centre of another dispute involving allegations of excessive firepower.
Judge Arthur Cooperman delivered the verdict in a Queens courtroom packed with spectators, including victim 
 fiancee and parents, as at least 200 people gathered outside the building. As word of the verdict spread, many outside the courthouse began crying and yelled ``No!'' Some briefly jostled with police officers. 
Bell, a 23-year-old black man, was killed in a hail of gunfire outside a seedy strip club in Queens on November 25, 2006 -- his wedding day -- as he was leaving his bachelor party with two friends.
The undercover officers, complaining that pre-trial publicity had unfairly painted them as cold-blooded killers, opted to have the judge decide the case rather than a jury.
Michael Oliver, 36, and Gescard Isnora, 29, stood trial for manslaughter while Marc Cooper, 40, was charged only with reckless endangerment. Two other shooters weren't charged. Mr Oliver squeezed off 31 shots; Mr Isnora fired 11 rounds; and Mr Cooper shot four times.
The judge said the charges could not be proved beyond a reasonable doubt. ``Questions of carelessness and incompetence must be left to other forums,'' Justice Cooperman said.
A conviction on manslaughter could have brought up to 25 years in prison; the penalty for reckless endangerment, a misdemeanour, is a year behind bars.
The case brought back painful memories of other NYPD shootings, such as the 1999 shooting of Amadou Diallo -- an African immigrant who was gunned down in a hail of 41 bullets by police officers who mistook his wallet for a gun. The acquittal of the officers in that case created a storm of protest, with hundreds arrested after taking to the streets in demonstration.
The mood surrounding this case has been muted by comparison, although Bell's fiancee, Nicole Paultre-Bell, parents and their supporters, including the Reverend Al Sharpton, have held rallies demanding that the officers -- two of whom are black -- be held accountable.
Police prepared for potential unrest with the announcement of the verdict although officials said they did not expect violence because numerous demonstrations against the perceived police brutality had remained peaceful.
The eight-week trial centred on whether the detectives had reason to believe they faced imminent danger and whether they made it clear to Bell and the two survivors, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, that they were police officers.
On the night of the shooting, Mr Isnora, the undercover officer who fired first, followed Bell and his two friends to Bell's car believing they went to fetch a gun to settle a dispute at the club.
He opened fire after being grazed by the car.
The other officers reached Bell's car after the initial confrontation and said they believed Mr Isnora was being fired at from inside the vehicle.
Defence attorneys painted the victims as drunken thugs who the officers believed were armed and dangerous. Prosecutors sought to convince the judge the victims had been minding their own business and that the officers were inept, trigger-happy aggressors. ``This F-Troop of a unit caused the death of an innocent man and caused the injury of two others,'' prosecutor Charles Testagrossa said, referring to the classic TV sitcom.
Mr Sharpton, who was in court last night, said before the verdict that he had sought to temper outrage over the shooting of three unarmed black men and let the trial take its course. Two of the three officers are black.
``We gave the city an opportunity to show that we would be a new city of fairness,'' Mr Sharpton said earlier this week.
