Nicole Paultre-Bell choked back tears yesterday as she blasted a judge's decision to clear three NYPD detectives in the slaying of her fianc - saying it was like "they killed Sean all over again."  
"The justice system let me down," she said, speaking for the first time since Detectives Michael Oliver, Marc Cooper and Gescard Isnora were cleared of all criminal charges in the Nov. 25, 2006, shooting that left 

 23, dead on his wedding day. 
Paultre-Bell received a standing ovation from hundreds attending a standing-room-only rally at the Rev. Al Sharpton's National Action Network headquarters in Harlem. 
"On April 25, 2008, they killed Sean all over again," she said. "That's what it felt like to us." 
Paultre-Bell, the mother of Bell's two young children, was "devastated" by the decision, said her father, Les Paultre, and barely slept Friday night. 
"I'm still praying for justice, because it's not over," she said. "Every protest, every march, every rally. I'll be right up front." 
After the rally, about 100 Bell supporters flooded the streets and marched through Harlem chanting, "No justice, no peace," stopping briefly outside the 32nd Precinct station house. 
There were no arrests, and the same march is planned today.     
At the National Action Network rally, Sharpton urged people to protest Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman's verdict in nonviolent ways, and announced he was meeting with labor and community leaders Tuesday to discuss a day of civil disobedience to take place in the next two weeks. 
"We strategically know how to stop the city so people stand still and realize that you do not have the right to shoot down unarmed, innocent citizens with no probable cause," he said to chants of "Shut it down." 
Sharpton, who had tears in his eyes at times, demanded a law requiring officers to get tested for alcohol after any shooting and a special prosecutor to deal with police cases.     
Meanwhile, the exonerated detectives kept low profiles yesterday, mostly staying behind closed doors and drawn curtain. 
Cooper - clad in jeans, sunglasses and a white, striped polo shirt - came out of his upstate home to cut his grass. 
"I would like to mow my lawn at least," he said. "I haven't had any privacy." 
A friend who visited the cop told reporters, "He's doing wonderful." 
No one answered the door at Isnora's house, and Oliver's family declined comment. 
Cooperman also stayed mum inside his Kew Gardens home, which was watched by cops in two unmarked cars. Additional reporting by John Doyle and Matthew Nestel 
