ANGRY chants of ``KKK'' and ``murderers'' filled a New York courtroom yesterday as three detectives were acquitted of killing an unarmed black man in a hail of 50 bullets on his wedding day.
The verdict in the racially charged 
 case - which raised questions about whether police were trigger-happy and used excessive force - placed the city on high alert.
The case brought back painful memories of other NYPD shootings, such as the 1999 death of Amadou Diallo, an African immigrant who was gunned down in a hail of 41 bullets by officers who mistook his wallet for a gun.
The acquittal of the officers in that case created a storm of protest, with hundreds arrested.
Mayor Michael Bloomberg appealed for calm in the wake of the latest decision, saying ``we don't expect violence or law-breaking, nor is there any place for it''.
The city remained calm overnight with protests limited to scuffles outside Queens County Court when the verdict was delivered.
Mr Bell, a 23-year-old father of two, died in a hail of bullets outside the Kalua Cabaret strip club in Queens on November 25, 2006, after leaving his buck's party with two friends. Justice Arthur Cooperman found the officers not guilty, and suggested the prosecution witnesses had been unreliable. He found the shooting was careless but not reckless. ``The people have not proved beyond a reasonable doubt that each defendant was not justified in firing,'' he said.
Cries of ``shame on you'' followed in the courtroom after the decision as a huge contingent of police tried to maintain calm.
Police Commissioner Ray Kelly said the three officers could still face internal disciplinary action.
The Justice Department is reviewing the case to determine whether to pursue a federal civil rights prosecution against the officers. The Bell family is also considering an appeal and is suing the city.
Officers Michael Oliver, 36, and Gescard Isnora, 29, were put on trial for manslaughter and faced a maximum 25 years in jail. A third officer, Marc Cooper, 40, was charged with reckless endangerment. Detective Oliver, who fired 31 shots, said Justice Cooperman had made a ``fair and just decision''.
The court heard a team of detectives was at the club investigating reports of prostitution. Det Isnora said he heard one of Mr Bell's friends, Joseph Guzman, say he was going to get a gun.
The court was told, however, the men left the club, got into their car and, as they drove off, scraped an unmarked police van with Det Oliver at the wheel.
The officers said they demanded the men stop and identified themselves as officers - a claim disputed by Mr Bell's friends.
The detectives also said they fired after believing Det Isnora was being fired at from inside the car.
Mr Bell died on the spot and two of his friends were wounded. No gun was found in their car.
Prominent civil rights activist the Rev Al Sharpton was incensed at the verdict and said ``the fight is far from over''.
He promised protests ``to demonstrate to the federal government that New Yorkers will not take this abortion of justice lying down''.
Former presidential candidate the Rev Jesse Jackson said: ``This was a massacre and the Attorney-General must give an assurance that we all have equal protection under the law.''
Outside court, Lorenzo Steele, a former police officer, said: ``We never shoot anyone 40 to 50 times. This was murder.''
