NEW YORK: Three detectives were found not guilty in the shooting death of an unarmed black man, killed in a hail of 50 bullets on his wedding day -- prompting angry reactions yesterday and a federal review.
A New York state judge cleared two policemen of manslaughter and other charges and a third of reckless endangerment in the death of 
 23. Mr Bell was shot, along with two friends, after a bachelor party at a strip club in 2006.
Federal authorities said they would consider civil rights charges, after a review by the Justice Department, federal prosecutors and the FBI.
They will ``take appropriate action, if the evidence indicates a prosecutable violation of federal criminal civil rights statutes,'' a departmental statement said.
After the verdict, hundreds of demonstrators yelled angrily, amid pushing and shoving in the crowd as police, reporters and spectators packed the footpath.
Civil rights leader Al Sharpton, who has been highly critical of police, called for wider protests.
``They want us to act crazy, so they would have an excuse to do more,'' Sharpton told his radio audience. ``We are going to be strategic. We are going to close the city down in a non-violent way.''
Mayor Michael Bloomberg called for calm, saying: ``We don't expect violence or law-breaking, nor is there any place for it''.
The case generated outrage in New York's black community, but police said they did not expect violence because numerous demonstrations against the perceived police brutality had been peaceful.
``It shows that there is no justice in America for the black man. This is telling us the cops can do whatever they want and get away with it,'' said B.M.Marcus, a community organiser.
The acquitted officers thanked their friends and families.
``I'd like to say sorry to the Bell family for the tragedy,'' said detective Marc Cooper, acquitted of a reckless endangerment charge.
The other detectives, Gescard Isnora and Mike Oliver, were charged with manslaughter.
All three men waived their right to a jury and opted to have a judge decide guilt or innocence. Defence lawyers said local jurors were likely to be biased against the police, with heavy media coverage.
Supreme Court Judge Arthur Cooperman said the charges could not be proved beyond reasonable doubt, after some witnesses changed their testimony and may have had motivation to lie.
The judge accepted the police felt in danger, adding: ``Questions of carelessness and incompetence must be left to other forums''.
On the fateful night, Isnora followed Bell and friends to a car, believing they went to get a gun to resolve a row. He fired after being grazed as Bell drove off. The other two said they believed Isnora was being fired at from inside the car.
