THE NIGHTMARE that began on Nicole Paultre Bell's wedding day spawned more heartache yesterday as she fled court in tears, knelt at her fianc's grave and returned home to taunting phone calls. 
Clad in black, the young mother of two did not put her emotions into words, but her family said she was crushed that no one would pay for 

 death.
"Anybody would be devastated," her father, Les Paultre, said outside his Far Rockaway home.
Paultre Bell, 23, began the day with a tearful prayer with the Rev. Al Sharpton at a diner near the courthouse in Kew Gardens.
They walked into the courtroom together, but when Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman announced the not guilty verdict, she broke away and ran out in tears.
She was soon followed by Trent Benefield, who was with Bell at the Kalua Cabaret and was wounded in the hail of gunfire that killed his buddy.
Tears streamed down Benefield's face as he spoke with disgust.
"They did a crime, they should pay the price. It's unfair," he said. "If I did it, I'd be doing 25 to life."
Benefield, 24, said he planned to "keep fighting" for justice for his friend and said he was sure the acquitted cops would face a day of reckoning at some point.
"In the end, they have to deal with God, like all of us," he said.
Heavy security enveloped Bell's parents, Valerie and William, as they left the courthouse with their slain son's fiance.
They headed for the Nassau Knolls Cemetery & Memorial Park in Port Washington, L.I., where Bell's grave is marked with a simple granite slab bearing the epitaph "See you later."
Weeping, Nicole knelt on the ground and placed flowers next to the marker.
Afterward, she returned to her parents' home, where police were called to investigate a series of callous, crank calls.
Nicole's father said when they answered the phone, they heard laughing or the line went dead. The number on the caller ID came back to the Sergeants Benevolent Association, he said.
SBA President Edward Mullins said the NYPD was investigating the phone calls. "We'll cooperate with any investigation. If . . . it came from here, I want to know," he said.
Les Paultre said he was stunned by the verdict. He called it "ridiculous," but said the family was not discouraged.
"We're not going to give up," he said. "We're going to keep pushing forward because Sean did not die in vain."
Bell's parents echoed that message. After returning from the cemetery, they locked arms with 10 supporters, some in T-shirts with Bell's picture on the front and the slogan "Never Again."
"Today I felt like I was reliving the death of my son all over again," Valerie Bell said. "We are going to fight this to the end."
Though their anger was palpable, the Bells were calm and urged supporters to follow suit. The message was mostly heeded.
Outside the courthouse, family friend Lloyd Nelson yelled: "This is as calm as we are going to be! If Nicole and the parents had not asked us to be calm, we'd be burning the city now."
