THE REV. AL SHARPTON vows to ratchet up the pressure on federal prosecutors today by bringing a powerful congressman to the Queens street where 

 was shot dead by city cops.
Sharpton said Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, will meet Bell's family this afternoon and walk from the Kalua Cabaret strip joint to the spot where Bell was killed and two friends were wounded in a fusillade of 50 shots from three detectives.
"We are going to take him to the scene," Sharpton told a cheering crowd at his National Action Network headquarters in Harlem as Bell's father and fiance sat grimly nearby. 
"We are going to walk the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee to show him how far the scene of the shooting was from the club," Sharpton said.
"It shows that the policeman had 50 different things he could have done in 2 1/2 blocks. If they thought that somebody was going to get a gun, he could have called for backup."
The congressman will first meet with Bell's family at the office of Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-Queens), said Sharpton. A spokeswoman for Conyers did not respond to requests for comment.
Detectives Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper were acquitted of state charges Friday when Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman said they believed one of Bell's friends had a gun.
Sharpton wants federal prosecutors to charge the detectives with civil rights violations, although legal observers call that unlikely.
"The justice system has let me down, let my family down, but I'm not giving up the faith," said Bell's fiance, Nicole Paultre Bell. "I'm still praying for justice."
Other civil rights leaders joined Sharpton in calling for major demonstrations in the coming weeks to protest the verdict.
"You still have to hit the streets; you still have to march - you still must raise hell and go to jail," said Charles Steele of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, bringing the crowd to its feet.
"It will not be the normal stuff," Sharpton said. "We're going to do this in an organized, meticulous way . . . and we have support from around the country."
Sharpton has also threatened protests outside Cooperman's home, saying the judge looked down on Bell and his friends because they were in a seedy club late at night.
"The new way to police now is, if you think someone said they have a gun, you follow them to the gun, wait for them to get into the car and take action," Sharpton said. "That is why we appeal to the Justice Department to aggressively step in to protect the rights of the citizens of this city."
The message resonated on the streets of Harlem, where 250 protesters marched down Lenox Ave. and blocked major intersections in what may be a prelude of actions to come.
"Madison Square Garden, Radio City Music Hall, Broadway - be alert," said organizer Salaam Ismial. "No violent actions, but no one should be quiet."
Marchers chanted "NYPD go to hell - we are all 

" as cops cleared traffic ahead of them and made no attempt to stop them.
A half-dozen men in dark suits from the Justice Department's Community Relations Service walked quietly behind the marchers. The unit tries to defuse tense racial situations across the country.
Drivers who were stuck in traffic for about 15 minutes at 125th St. and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Blvd. said they didn't mind the inconvenience because the civil disobedience sent an important message.
"It got things done in the past, so hopefully it makes a difference now," said Shawn Arana, 39, of Harlem, a father of two who was stuck in traffic. "It could have been me just as easily, or it could have been [my kids]."
alisberg@nydailynews.com
