Mayor Bloomberg is flat wrong when he says "there are no winners" in yesterday's verdict in the 

 shooting trial.  
What about the rule of law?  
Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman was a big winner, too: He showed - by acquitting the three police officers on all charges - that politically charged cases can be judged solely on the basis of the facts.  
That's exactly what Cooperman did in finding that the fatal shooting of Bell and the wounding of two others outside the Kalua strip club in Jamaica - notorious for drugs, guns and prostitution - "was not proved to be criminal."   
It was the right verdict - as counterintuitive as that may seem. When cops fire 50 shots, there should be a war on, right?  
Wrong: The fact is that the law gives "peace officers" - a legal term that includes cops - substantial discretion in the use of deadly force.  
As a matter of law, police officers are allowed to open fire if they reasonably believe their lives to be in danger - and once the shooting starts, the number of shots fired isn't really relevant.  
Indeed, NYPD officers are trained to keep shooting until the danger has passed - and that is sound policy, too.  
What happened to 

 - and to Amadou Diallo before him - was tragic. No one fairly can deny that.  
But criminalizing tragic outcomes - everything else being equal - only emboldens criminals.  
The chance that other officers would hesitate when they perceive themselves to be in mortal danger for fear that they might face up to 25 years behind bars (the sentence that Detective Michael Oliver could have faced if found guilty yesterday) is unthinkable.  
That would be unfair to cops - and, by extension, to the law-abiding citizens they're sworn to protect.  
But was it reasonable for the Bell officers to fear for their lives?  
Again, as a matter of law, it was up to Queens District Attorney Richard Brown to prove otherwise: That's what "presumption of innocence" means.  
In the event, as Justice Cooperman's verdict in the non-jury trial demonstrates, Brown's office failed to prove that what Oliver and his fellow detectives, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper, did was unjustified.  
Cooperman found that the prosecution's evidence simply didn't hold up - that, in fact, the testimony of prosecution witnesses often "didn't make sense."  
Sure, the Rev. Al Sharpton was quick to ridicule the judge for declaring that Trent Benefield's "credibility was seriously impeached" because forensic evidence disproved his claim that he'd been shot while running away.  
In fact, what really undermined Benefield's credibility was his admission on the stand that he was drunk when the shooting started - and that he'd been high on marijuana every day for six years before the incident.  
And testimony clearly indicated that another shooting victim, Joseph Guzman, had threatened to retrieve a gun, and then seemed to be reaching for a weapon when Bell's car collided with a police van - which set off the police shootings.  
"The officers responded to perceived criminal conduct" by the victims, said the judge. "The unfortunate consequences of their conduct were tragic."  
But it was not a crime.  
We trust that the US Justice Department, which yesterday announced its own investigation of the case, will arrive at the same conclusion.  
Sharpton et al. have promised a healthy dose of the usual bombast - and that is their right.  
But we also trust that reasonable New Yorkers will conclude that Judge Cooperman's verdict was, in fact, reasonable.   
And that justice was served. 
