They may have come out winners in court, but the three cops acquitted in the 
 shooting will still find themselves parked behind desks come Monday morning.  
And getting their guns back remains a long shot, police sources said yesterday.   
"Slim to none" is how one police official put their chances of carrying a weapon again.  
Michael Oliver, Gescard Isnora and Marc Cooper will all cool their heels pushing paper while they await possible federal prosecution, civil suits and departmental hearings stemming from the November 2006 shooting.  
"At this point they are on modified assignment and expected back in their commands on Monday," said Michael Palladino, who heads the detectives union.  
But they won't be running into each other.  
Oliver has been assigned to the Detective Borough Manhattan, Cooper will spend his days at Detective Borough Bronx, and Isnora has been dispatched to Patrol Borough Brooklyn North, law-enforcement sources said.  
Their duties could include answering phones, and filing, faxing and filling out sick reports.  
Such has been the fate of other cops involved in high-profile shootings.  
Kenneth Boss, who in 1999 was found not guilty in the 41-shot killing of unarmed immigrant Amadou Diallo, has been working as a department mechanic at Floyd Bennett Field. He is still fighting to get his gun back.  
Richard Neri, never indicted in the 2004 Brooklyn rooftop shooting death of unarmed teen Timothy Stansbury, is in the Property Clerk's Office in Whitestone, Queens.  
The US Attorney's Office said yesterday its Civil Rights Division has ordered an "independent review of the facts and circumstances" to determine if it will prosecute.  
Once all of that shakes out, the NYPD will decide whether to bring departmental charges against the detectives, though police sources said firing the cops would infuriate many in the ranks.  
"Morale is already at an all-time low," said one detective. "If these guys were ever fired, no cop should ever write another summons or make another arrest again."  
Additional reporting by Stefanie Cohen     
