Hundreds of angry New Yorkers marched through Harlem on Saturday after civil rights activist Al Sharpton promised to "close this city down" to protest against the acquittals of three police officers who killed a young groom on his wedding day. 
Speaking to an overflow crowd outside his National Action Network office, Mr Sharpton said: "This city is going to deal with the blood of 

"We strategically know how to stop the city, so people stand still and realise that you do not have the right to shoot down unarmed, innocent civilians," he said.
The police killed Mr Bell, 23, and wounded two of his friends in a 50-shot barrage outside a Queens strip club in November 2006, just hours before his wedding.
On Friday, Justice Arthur Cooperman acquitted the three detectives who pulled the triggers on the group, after presiding over a non-jury trial.
Mr Sharpton did not specify exactly what type of action he would initiate to protest against the acquittals.
However, he said that Mr Bell's supporters could demonstrate all over New York, from Wall Street to the home of Justice Cooperman.
Sitting behind Mr Sharpton as he spoke were Mr Bell's parents, William and Valerie, his sister and Nicole Paultre Bell, who took her fiance's name after his death.
Ms Paultre Bell said: "The justice system let me down, they killed Sean all over again."
Black Cops Against Police Brutality founder and president Delacy Davis commented: "The moment that the officers requested and received a non-jury trial, we knew that they would not be found guilty.
"We've seen this consistent pattern of abuse in the system," he said.
And Hip Hop Caucus president Lennox Yearwood, who works to boost the involvement of young black people in progressive politics, fumed: "We have not been witnesses to fair and impartial administration of justice for all Americans as is stated in the mission of the Department of Justice.
"If the mission of the Department of Justice and rule of law is being broken, then the integrity of the institution and system is lost and there is no rule of law," Mr Yearwood observed.
He added: "When there is no rule of law, people will organise themselves to work for justice as a means to protect themselves out of necessity."
