"I'm sorry."  
Only one of the three detectives acquitted yesterday of killing 
 in a 50-bullet barrage outside a Queens strip club offered an apology to the slain groom's family.  
In their first public statements since the Nov. 25, 2006, shooting, Detective Marc Cooper appeared with his co-defendants, Detectives Michael Oliver and Gescard Isnora. On the verge of tears, Cooper said, "I'd like to say sorry to the Bell family for the tragedy."  
He added, "I'd like to thank the Lord, my savior. I've just started my life back."   
Cooper was found not guilty of reckless endangerment after firing four bullets during the fusillade. He spoke at a Detectives Endowment Association press conference hours after he, Isnora and Oliver were found not guilty on all charges of opening fire on the 23-year-old father of two.  
None of the detectives testified on their own behalf during the trial. Instead, prosecutors read aloud each of their grand-jury testimonies.  
Hours earlier, inside a packed and emotion-filled courtroom, Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman delivered the not-guilty verdict, saying the detectives' version of events was more credible than those of prosecution witnesses.  
"The police response with respect to each defendant was not proved to be criminal," said Cooperman.  
Bell's weeping fiance, Nicole Paultre-Bell, stormed out of the courtroom after the decision was announced. His mother, Valerie, collapsed outside.  
Angry protesters screamed "Murderers! Murderers!" and "KKK!" near the courthouse as fistfights broke out in the crowd. However, no one was arrested.  
In Far Rockaway, Bell's father, William, called the verdict "a slap in the face and a kick in the ass," according to WABC/Channel 7.  
Oliver and Isnora, who faced manslaughter raps, did not have any words for Bell's family. Instead, they thanked their families and Cooperman, who decided the case in Queens Supreme Court after the defense opted against a jury trial.  
Oliver, who fired 31 bullets, said Cooperman made a "fair and just decision."  
Isnora called the verdict "fair and accurate."  
In other developments yesterday:  
* The Justice Department, joined by federal prosecutors in Brooklyn and the FBI, said it will review the case to determine whether to charge the detectives with civil rights violations.  
* City Comptroller Bill Thompson, the highest-ranking elected black official in the city, said he was "disappointed and absolutely stunned." He called the shooting "excessive use of force by the police."  
* Gov. Paterson said that "we're a society of laws and . . . we accept the findings of that legal proceeding."  
* Presidential candidate Barack Obama called the killing a "tragedy" but urged calm and respect for the judge's decision.  
* About 1,000 extra cops remained on duty through the night in case of an emergency. Police Commissioner Ray Kelly would not comment on the verdict.  
* Mayor Bloomberg, who called the shooting "excessive" days after the tragedy, refused to back down from those comments. He also said "there are no winners in a trial like this."  
* A dejected Queens DA Richard Brown accepted the verdict and said Cooperman "discharged his responsibilities fairly and conscientiously under the law."  
* Following the verdict, the family visited Bell's grave in Port Washington, LI.  
* On his radio show, the Rev. Al Sharpton called on people to stage protests outside Cooperman's Queens home this weekend, prompting cops to escort the jurist.  
Last night, about 100 protesters swarmed the 103rd Precinct in Jamaica, shouting "F- - - the police" and "Blue-eyed devils" at dozens of cops who stood shoulder to shoulder. The demonstrators then marched down Jamaica Avenue to club Kalua, where the 2006 tragedy unfolded.  
Along the way, they flipped garbage cans, newsstands and a portable toilet, and tossed glass bottles at cops.  
When the group reached the corner of 150th Street and Archer Avenue, the crowd was told to disperse.  
One of the protesters was arrested, as was a representative from the Legal Aid Guild who tried to intervene.  
Earlier, another group marched from the courthouse to the site of the shooting, chanting "No justice, no peace" and "Whose streets? Our streets!"  
The verdict came 17 months to the day after the shooting outside the Jamaica club, where friends had come for Bell's bachelor party hours before he was to be married.  
The 74-year-old judge said the prosecution's case was undermined by "prior inconsistent statements" of some of Bell's friends - specifically Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, who were in the car with him and also suffered bullet wounds.  
Cooperman said that "at times, the testimony of those witnesses just didn't make sense."  
After the verdict, Oliver, who showed no emotion throughout the two-month trial, openly wept. Isnora hugged his lawyer.       
Had the detectives been found guilty, Oliver, 36, and Isnora, 29 could have been sentenced to 25 years behind bars. Cooper, 40, faced a year in prison.       
After the verdict, Assistant DA Charles Testagrossa said he couldn't "really say we would have done things differently."  
"It's very easy for people who are observing the trial to say, 'Well, gee, you called this witness, why'd you call that witness?' "  
He also shrugged off assertions that he did not properly prepare witnesses.  
Isnora told a grand jury last year that he heard Bell's friend Guzman say, "Yo, go get my gun," after a fight outside Kalua and decided to call for backup.       
Bell tried to drive away and the cops began shooting, witnesses said.      
"It isn't right," Benefield said as he walked out of court. "If we had been the shooters, we'd be in jail right now." Additional reporting by Samuel Goldsmith, Perry Chiaramonte, James Fanelli, David Seifman, Lorena Mongelli, Stefanie Cohen, Peter Cox, Tom Liddy, Patrick Gallahue and Fredric U. Dicker  
---- 
Queens Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman    
'The court has found that the people's ability to prove their case beyond a reasonable doubt was affected by . . . witnesses' prior inconsistent statements, inconsistencies in testimony among prosecution witnesses, the renunciation of prior statements, criminal convictions, the interest of some witnesses in the outcome of the case, the demeanor on the witness stand of other witnesses and the motive witnesses may have had to lie and the effect it had on the truthfulness of a witness's testimony.' 
