10 a.m. Peter Vallone Jr., hosts a City Council committee hearing about biological, chemical and radiological detectors, in the committee room at City Hall.
10 a.m. Charles Barron hosts a City Council committee hearing about educational degrees offered online and the City of New York University system, at 250 Broadway. 
10 a.m. The New York State Economic Development Power Allocation Board meets, on the 16th Floor of 123 Main Street, in White Plains.
11 a.m. The N.Y.C.L.U. releases report on racial bias and the New York City marijuana arrests, on the 19th Floor of 125 Broad Street.
11 a.m. Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez opens the Small Business Development Center at New York City College of Technology, on the 11th Floor of 25 Chapel Street, in Brooklyn.
11 a.m. M.A.D.D. hosts its annual Brooklyn Law Enforcement Recognition Luncheon, at 476 76th Street, in Brooklyn.
11 a.m. Congressman Steve Israel discusses high gas prices, at 377 Veterans Highway, in Smithtown, Long Island.
12:45 p.m. Suffolk lawmakers introduce legislation to increase penalties for gas price gouging, at 725 Veterans Memorial Highway, in Hauppauge, Long Island.
1 p.m. Eric Gioia, Robert Jackson and James Gennaro host a joint City Council committee hearing on changing the city charter in order to create a new sustainability plan for New York City, in the City Council chambers at City Hall.
1 p.m. Oliver Koppell and Annabel Palma host a joint City Council committee hearing about using Buprenorphine as a complement to methodone for drug treatment, in the committee room inside City Hall.
1 p.m. Simcha Felder hosts a City Council committee hearing on the Citywide Performance Reporting (CPR) system, at 250 Broadway.
5:45 p.m. Residents protest tax breaks for luxury developers, at Yonkers City Hall, 40 South Street
6 p.m. David Yassky hosts a green fund-raiser for his city comptroller campaign, on the 23rd Floor of 101 Avenue of the Americas.
6 p.m. The N.Y.C. Voter Assistance Commission hosts discussion on national political party conventions, at 10 Grand Army Plaza, in Brooklyn.
6 p.m. Former Wall Street Journal managing editor Paul Steiger and CEO of ProPublica, speak at Touro College Graduate School of Business, on the 2nd Floor of 65 Broadway.
6:30 p.m. Letitia James, Kevin Powell and others host a town hall meeting to discuss the 
 verdict, at 484 Washington Avenue, in Brooklyn.
