NEW YORK - The loudest sob in the courtroom may have been the one emitted by Michael Oliver, the New York police detective and Clifton native.
As state Supreme Court Justice Arthur J. Cooperman read aloud the words "not guilty" Friday morning, thus ending an eight-week trial in the shooting death of 23-year-old 

 Oliver leaned forward, clutched his face and let out a choked sob.
Tears streaked the 36-year-old veteran cop's face as he stood and hugged his lead defense attorney, James Culleton. Oliver had faced up to 25 years in prison if convicted of first-degree manslaughter, the most serious of six criminal and misdemeanor charges.
His reaction was the most visceral of the three police detectives on trial, and it was in stark contrast to the stoic, if intense, calm he had presented since the November 2006 police shooting outside a Queens, N.Y., strip club, which ended the life of the unarmed Bell hours before his wedding. 
Working as part of an undercover investigation of suspected prostitution at the Kalua Cabaret, Oliver infamously fired 31 of the 50 bullets at 

 Nissan Altima after it hit his co-defendant, Detective Gescard Isnora, then twice struck an unmarked police van. An autopsy revealed it was one of Oliver's bullets that killed Bell, who lived in Jamaica, Queens.
Both Isnora and a third co-defendant, Detective Marc Cooper, were also found not guilty by Cooperman on Friday. The judge heard the case without a jury at the defense team's request.
Cooperman explained his verdict as he delivered it. He said that while questions remain about the officers' competence and tactical training, he found the prosecution just did not prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the officers' actions were criminal. He said Isnora, who fired the first shot at Bell's car, had reason to believe that Bell's friend, Joseph Guzman, was reaching for a gun when Isnora attempted to stop the vehicle, which had just lightly struck his leg. The judge said the sometimes inconsistent, nonsensical and combative testimony of prosecution witnesses also harmed the case.
In a brief news conference Friday afternoon, the officers spoke for the first time about the case. Cooper apologized for Bell's death, although none of the four bullets he fired hit the man's car.
"I'd like to say sorry to the Bell family for the tragedy," Cooper said. "I'd like to thank the Lord my savior."
Still, acquittal does not mean the end of their legal troubles.
Bell's family, along with the two men injured in the police shooting, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, have filed a $50 million civil suit against New York.
Meanwhile, Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Benton Campell said his office is reviewing the case and may file federal charges against Oliver and the other detectives, Isnora and Cooper, if evidence shows the officers violated Bell's civil rights.
And after Friday's verdict, NYPD Commissioner Raymond Kelly, who declined to comment on the decision, hinted that the three officers involved in the shooting may face administrative charges.
The promise of more litigation did little on Friday to allay the disappointment of Bell's family and the hundreds of supporters who packed the courtroom and clogged the sidewalks outside the Queens State Supreme Court complex.
Many gasped at the verdict and sobbed at the crushing legal defeat it represented. William and Valerie Bell, the slain man's parents, clutched hands and remained seated in the third row. Nicole Paultre-Bell, who was to marry their son, fled the courtroom.
As Bell's supporters left the courtroom, Oliver's family sat and expressed their relief. His mother, Yvonne, and sister, Geraldine, wept in the rear of the courtroom. Oliver's father, Norman, just stared into the distance and chewed gum.
Minutes later, they walked out of the court complex from a secluded entrance. Their expressions were serious and their voices grave as they said "no comment" to reporters when asked to talk about Oliver's acquittal. The three then stepped into a waiting black Ford sport utility vehicle and were driven north on Queens Boulevard, past the clamoring hordes of reporters and the outraged throngs of protesters.
For about 40 minutes, the front of the court complex was chaotic. Helicopters hovered overhead. Activists picketed. Some carried banners that read, "Justice for 

 ... 50 More Reasons for a Revolution."
About a dozen people marched in a circle chanting anti-police slogans: "NYPD, you can't hide/We charge you with genocide." Dozens of police officers, dressed in royal blue polo shirts, silently formed arm-to-arm chains to control the flows of human traffic.
The crowd turned as William and Valerie Bell, wearing sunglasses, led a long procession down the courthouse steps. William Bell, dressed in an ivory white suit and hat, briefly lifted his hand in a faint wave to the hundreds who had massed outside. The crowd followed the family and then mostly dispersed once they left.
It was 10 a.m. and back to business as usual at the courthouse. A line of people were allowed in to answer summonses and take care of other business.
But the anger did not disappear with the crowds. The Rev. Al Sharpton, a spokesman for Bell's family, called the ruling "an abortion of justice." Others echoed the civil rights activist's sentiment and called out Cooperman by name.
"The eyes of God are upon him, that wicked judge," said Fay E. Persaud, of Jamaica, Queens. "The wrath of God is upon Cooperman. He did this because he is retiring and he doesn't give a damn."
The 74-year-old jurist is less than two years away from mandatory retirement.
Many said Cooperman's ruling was proof that the judicial system is stacked against black men when the police are the accused.
"You know what's odd," said Will Reese, an activist from Harlem, "is when the police get convicted of anything."
In Clifton, members of Oliver's family remained inside his grandmother's home, near the city's border with Paterson. Several reporters from the New York tabloids camped out across the street, while Clifton police officers regularly patrolled the area.
Oliver will not grant an interview about the Bell trial, according to a police union representative for the officer. And so far, his only words about the courtroom experience came during Friday's press conference.
The picture of calm returned once again, as Oliver spoke briefly and thanked Cooperman for the not-guilty verdict.
WHAT'S AHEAD
While three NYPD detectives were acquitted on Friday in state Supreme Court in Queens of all criminal charges in the shooting death of 

 in November 2006 and wounding his two friends, the officers and the city potentially face a long legal road ahead.
$50 million lawsuit: Fiance Nicole Paultre-Bell, and the two men injured in the police shooting, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, have filed a $50 million civil rights and wrongful death lawsuits against New York.
Federal charges: Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Benton Campbell is reviewing the Bell case and may bring federal civil rights charges against NYPD detectives Michael Oliver of Clifton, Gescard Isnora, and Marc Cooper who were involved in the shooting.
Administrative action: New York Police Commissioner Ray Kelly hinted Friday that the NYPD may bring disciplinary charges against the three officers involved.
- Ed Beeson
