Despite their acquittal yesterday on all criminal charges in the fatal shooting of an unarmed 

 on Nov. 25, 2006, detectives Gescard Isnora, Michael Oliver and Marc Cooper are not in the clear, police sources say.
State Supreme Court Justice Arthur Cooperman ruled that the detectives bore no criminal responsibility for Bell's death or for the wounding of his two friends, Trent Benefield and Joseph Guzman.
Cooperman found that the state's case was riddled with problems and that the prosecutors had failed to overcome the cops' claim that they fired in self-defence. 
Police fired 50 shots that killed Bell and wounded two of his friends after a bachelor party. The cops said that they suspected, based on what Isnora and others witnessed outside the Kalua Cabaret, that Guzman might have had a gun.
Although no gun was ever found, Guzman's movements in Bell's car led Isnora, who had been struck by the car as it attempted to drive away, to yell out "gun" and then commence firing 11 shots. That shooting sparked the firing by Oliver, who discharged 31 shots, and Cooper, who fired four times. Other cops who weren't indicted fired the remainder of the 50 shots.
Cooperman said some witnesses had major credibility problems because they had given inconsistent statements on the witness stand, in the grand jury and in meetings with prosecutors, or had an interest in the outcome of the trial because of lawsuits. The latter was an apparent reference to Trent Benefield and Joseph Guzman, two friends of Bell who were wounded in the incident and are suing the New York Police Department.
But the trio could face departmental charges, as could Lt. Gary Napoli, the supervisor in charge the night 

 was shot dead outside club Kalua Cabaret, sources say.
The NYPD, as it normally does when there is a pending criminal trial, has essentially sat on the sidelines waiting for the trial to end.
Following the verdict, the U.S. Justice Department yesterday announced it would "conduct an independent review of the facts and circumstances" surrounding the case.
If federal authorities do not make a case against the detectives, it is likely NYPD Internal Affairs investigators will quickly decide whether the cops would be brought up on departmental charges.
At the heart of the matter is a series of what police sources have described as tactical missteps, starting with Napoli, who acknowledged in testimony that the ill-fated operation at the club was poorly planned.
Police sources say Napoli failed to take control of the situation, setting in motion the chain of events leading to the shooting.
At the same time, questions were raised when Isnora, who had been inside the club working undercover, confronted Bell and his friends as they got into Bell's car.
Typically, an undercover officer is not supposed to get involved in any arrest because it compromises his cover, though Police Commissioner Ray Kelly has said circumstances sometimes make that tough.
Oliver, meanwhile, could face charges for firing 31 shots. Police officers are trained to shoot until they are sure there is no longer a threat, but sources say investigators do not feel Oliver ever paused to properly assess the situation.
Regardless of whether there are departmental charges, sources say there is virtually no chance that Oliver and Isnora, and maybe even Cooper, will ever work on the streets again.
In Harlem yesterday afternoon, Al Sharpton called the verdict "an abortion of justice" and promised nonviolent demonstrations in response.
After the verdict, Sharpton, Nicole Paultre Bell and 

 parents walked away without commenting.
