Acquitting George Zimmerman required jurors to ignore crucial facts. Mr. Zimmerman was an armed adult. Trayvon Martin was an unarmed child. Mr. Zimmerman was spoiling for a confrontation. Mr. Martin was buying snacks. Police dispatchers advised Mr. Zimmerman to back off. Did Mr. Martin feel he was being stalked? Jurors never got to hear his version, because Mr. Zimmerman killed him. 
The key to Mr. Zimmerman's acquittal apparently was the defense contention that he was in genuine fear for his life. Defense witnesses portrayed him as a softie who could not have held his own once embroiled in a fight. Ignore everything before Mr. Zimmerman got himself into that jam, and the not guilty verdict makes narrow sense.
But it doesn't fit any satisfying definition of justice. The person who starts a fight should be legally culpable if that fight escalates to the point that the instigator has to use lethal force to save his own life. He shouldn't lose the right to defend himself; the other combatant should not be free to kill him with impunity. But the person who starts a fight is not innocent. Self-defense law should be clarified to allow manslaughter or its equivalent in cases like this one.
As disappointing as this trial's outcome is, it could have been worse. Citing Florida's "stand your ground" law, police initially did not arrest Mr. Zimmerman. But that blatant injustice did not stand. Protests led to national publicity, which led to the appointment of special prosecutor Angela Corey, who made the decision to charge Mr. Zimmerman with second-degree murder. Charging Mr. Zimmerman with that crime was the right call, as was Seminole County Circuit Judge Debra Nelson's decision last week to explicitly instruct jurors that they could consider the lesser charge of manslaughter. If the judge had not allowed that option, second-guessing after the acquittal would be even more intense.
Racial issues hang over this case. Did Mr. Zimmerman profile a black teen wearing a hoodie? Did jurors unconsciously do the same, with defense attorneys subtly steering them in that direction? As we have noted, jurors could not form a direct impression because Mr. Martin could not take the stand. The NAACP has asked the U.S. Justice Department to prosecute Mr. Zimmerman for violating Mr. Martin's civil rights. The Justice Department said Sunday it is reviewing the case.
Federal prosecution following a state acquittal should be rare. But this case deserves serious federal scrutiny, particularly given lawmakers' unconcern that state laws are inciting amateurs to draw and use guns they're dangerously ill-prepared to use in a crisis.
Mr. Zimmerman's acquittal centered on his right to defend his life. A federal case would focus on Mr. Martin's right to live his life.
Jac Wilder VerSteeg for The Post Editorial Board
