In response to Florida neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman being cleared of all charges in the much-publicized shooting death of TrayvonMartin, a group of Boulderites held a prayer vigil Sunday on the Pearl Street Mall.   
Rev. Donald Matthews, a faculty member of religious studies at Naropa University, led the event. He said the gathering was intended to help the "healing of the spirit of America." About 35 people attended the vigil that was quickly organized by Matthews and Boulder resident Jen Watson. "This is a story of human tragedy," Matthews said. "A young boy who was stalked and killed. It didn't have to happen." Zimmerman was acquitted by a jury Saturday in the shooting of Martin, the unarmed black teenager whose killing has set off a debate about racial profiling. Zimmerman could have been convicted of second-degree murder or manslaughter. In the aftermath of the Zimmerman verdict, Watson said to Matthews: "This is outrageous." Matthews responded: "Outrageous is something the marginalized expect every day." Watson and Matthews are spearheading a new community group to discuss - and work to better - race relations in Boulder. "One of the things I hope comes out of the TrayvonMartin case is that we will be more compassionate to one another," Matthews said. As part of the vigil, Matthews read a poem he wrote for Martin: "Racism was hungry the night you were shot. It is a beast must be fed its regular sacrifice of black, brown, yellow and poor white meat. It must be offered victims on the regular." During the vigil, some in attendance took turns speaking. "I know I still live in a world where people are profiled," said Stuart Lord. "There isn't a black man today who hasn't been profiled." Catherine Ballance said, through tears, that as a mother she can't imagine the pain that Martin's mother is experiencing. "Not only to lose a son the way she did, but then to not have justice prevail," Ballance said.  
Dr. Donald Matthews recites a poem he wrote for TrayvonMartin on the Boulder County Courthouse lawn on the Pearl Street Mall on Sunday evening, July 14, 2013, during a prayer vigil in support of the Martin family.
