Where's the outrage over this death?
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
Regarding the senseless, violent death of Jeff Higham in Jackson Ward at the hands of three street thugs: This young man had everything going for him.
Black-on-black violence is the scourge of our cities and yet I read little about the tragedy of this malady and what our illustrious politicians intend to do about the innocent lives lost to this type of crime. Higham's death is an outrage, but I don't see Al Sharpton, Jesse Jackson or even President Obama expressing concern over this young man's death. I ask myself why -- and the only answer I can find is that his death does not fit within their divisive politics. 
I find despicable the silence of all politicians and the mainstream media that let them get away with not addressing this issue. We are in the midst of constant media coverage of George Zimmerman's killing of Trayvon Martin, a death that drew extensive comments from Obama, Sharpton and Jackson. I hear nothing about Higham's death from these leaders.
The death of any young person is tragic and my heart goes out to the parents of both Higham and Martin. But it's time to end the selective outrage and race-baiting politics and address the problems that are truly destroying our cities. Higham's death cannot mean little to the public or our leaders. His legacy cannot be only a crime statistic.
Paul Allen.
Midlothian.
Column provided a timely reminder
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
A. Barton Hinkle's July 3 column, "Commit any felonies lately?" provided a timely commentary right before the Fourth of July.
Fireworks and barbecues are wonderful, but Independence Day is ultimately about remembering and celebrating the importance of freedom. If Hinkle's list of recent civil-liberties abuses prompts readers to do something to help preserve liberty (whether it's attending a city council meeting, contacting representatives, volunteering for a political campaign or civil liberties organization, or even just writing a letter to the editor) then he has honored Independence Day.
Chelsea German.
Charlottesville.
Blame Congress, not the president
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
In your editorial "Green Blues," you correctly acknowledge the need for government action to limit greenhouse-gas (GHG) pollution, even as you criticize President Obama's announced plans to reduce GHG emissions.
However, the president can do only what the law permits. Your criticism that taxing GHG emissions would be more efficient should be aimed at Congress, since only Congress can enact a GHG tax. And before criticizing the president, name the Republicans who would support a GHG tax or who would even allow such a proposal to come up for a vote in the House or Senate.
Until Republicans are prepared to acknowledge the science and take reasonable steps to protect our children and grandchildren, instead of defending the status quo and their big donors, the president should do whatever the law permits him to do to restrain GHG pollution.
William Penniman.
Reston.
Rich get pleasure; poor get pain
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
Does absolute power corrupt absolutely? Well, let's see. President Obama just returned from his trip to Africa, family and friends in tow, to the tune of $100 million. However, our dear president must cut back on some military perks, such as water parks and swimming pools for our soldiers, in order to save a reported $2.3 million.
Then there are those incredible salaries lavished upon too many administrators in our colleges and universities. And if that doesn't confound one enough, the outrageous increases in CEO pay and benefits over the past decade, if not longer, should just make one sick.
Isn't it interesting that people at the highest levels of employment (public, private and political) seem to have few if any restrictions to their personal gain at what very well might be every other person's expense? I think the answer is yes.
John Thomas.
Richmond.
