Local clergy and the NAACP will hold a rally Saturday in Daytona Beach as part of a nationwide drive urging federal prosecutors to charge George Zimmerman with violating the civil rights of TrayvonMartin when he shot the teen to death.
Photo Galleries 
* Zimmerman Trial Reaction
Rev. L. Ronald Durham of Greater Friendship Missionary Baptist Church in Daytona Beach, as well as other area clergy and the local NAACP chapter, will hold a "Justice for Trayvon" National Day of Action Vigil. Rev. Al Sharpton called for the rallies in at least 100 cities with the local one set for noon Saturday in front of the 5th District Court of Appeal, 300 S. Beach St.
"It is a rally that Rev. Sharpton asked us all for last night," Durham said Monday. "We're hoping this will jump-start the case."
The rallies aim to convince the U.S. Department of Justice to press criminal civil rights charges against Zimmerman for fatally shooting the 17-year-old youth who was unarmed and carried only Skittles and iced tea.
In his first comments since Zimmerman's acquittal Saturday night, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said that Martin's parents have suffered a pain that no parent should have to endure. Holder said Monday that Martin's killing was a "tragic, unnecessary shooting" and that the youth's death provides an opportunity for the nation to speak honestly about complicated and emotionally charged issues.
On Sunday, the Justice Department said it is reviewing evidence in the case to determine whether criminal civil rights charges are warranted.
Durham said there is solid support in Washington by members of the Congressional Black Caucus to urge Holder to file the civil rights charges against Zimmerman.
Durham said that he and about 200 other pastors from around the nation were on a conference call with Sharpton on Sunday night concerning the Zimmerman verdict and the Justice for Trayvon National Day of Action Vigil. Sharpton will not attend the Daytona Beach rally.
In a press release Durham said: "If we don't act now, to stem the far reaching implications for the verdict in this trial, anyone can now find themselves followed or confronted by a stranger, and when asked 'why are you following me?' can be shot using this ruling as the basis of their defense."
Zimmerman, 29, was acquitted of second degree murder and manslaughter late Saturday night in a Seminole County courtroom by a jury of six women. Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer at his townhouse community in Sanford, fatally shot Martin in February 2012 after he and the unarmed teen -- dressed in a hooded sweatshirt which has become a symbol for protesters -- got into a physical confrontation.
The case quickly became about race - Martin was black, Zimmerman's father is white and his mother is from Peru -- after several civil rights leaders said Zimmerman racially profiled Martin when he saw him walking along a sidewalk in his community.
Zimmerman maintained that he shot the youth in self-defense.
The verdict delivered Saturday after 10 p.m. sparked several mostly peaceful demonstrations in various cities across the country.
Zimmerman's acquittal shows the inequality in the justice system, said Cynthia Slater, president of the NAACP for Volusia County and the second vice president of the Florida State Conference NAACP.
"It was a senseless death," Slater said. "We have to look at the whole criminal justice system and how African-Americans and other minorities are treated when it comes to justice."
Durham is collaborating with Rev. Troy Bradley of Greater Union First Baptist Church in DeLand, who said he would be putting the word out about Saturday's rally to various pastors in the DeLand area, as well as in DeLeon Springs and Osteen. Bradley said any member of his church is welcome to attend the rally and transportation will be provided by the church if needed.
Durham is asking that young people attending the rally Saturday to wear a hoodie and take a bag of Skittles.
