First-time filmmaker Ryan Coogler had to overcome many seemingly insurmountable obstacles to complete Fruitvale Station.
But none seemed as impossible  as bringing Octavia Spencer on board just after the actress won the supporting-actress Oscar as the sassy Minny Jackson in The Help at the 2012 Academy Awards.
"I thought it was  crazy to even ask," says Coogler, 27. "But my agent said she's a nice lady and she might like the script. I didn't think in a million years she was going to say yes." 
Spencer stunned him by agreeing to work on the reality-based drama (opening Friday), and he realized that his victory made him even more stressed out. Coogler feared that the veteran actress with the new gold statue wouldn't follow his direction or would treat the project like a charity.
"I had these fears," Coogler says. "But they melted away the moment I met her. She was 110% in from that moment. She was like a battery that got hooked up to the film, and she took it into hyperdrive."
Fruitvale Station shot into another orbit thanks to the work of Michael B. Jordan (HBO's The Wire), who plays Oscar Grant, the 22-year-old shot to death by San Francisco-area transit police in 2009; Spencer, who plays his mother, Wanda; and Forest Whitaker, who's a  producer. After winning the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival in January, the movie made a triumphant international debut at the Cannes Film Festival in May.
The  U.S. release comes  in the midst of George Zimmerman's high-profile trial in the shooting death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. Though there are key differences in the incidents, the shootings feature "parallels," Coogler says, including young, unarmed African-American victims.
"I felt this was an important story to tell," Spencer says. "We just rolled up our sleeves and did what was necessary."
Spencer, 43, says she had her doubts about getting involved with the project: She has no children but plays a mother who loses her son. Further, she was concerned about stepping into a racially charged issue.
both sides of the man
She changed her mind after reading Coogler's script, which focused on telling the story of Grant's final 24 hours, a portrait that showed redeeming qualities and warts of the devoted family man who dealt marijuana and had spent time in prison.
"Ryan wasn't showing Oscar saving babies," Spencer says. "He showed Oscar as good and bad. He's flawed. It's a balanced portrayal. That's what I wanted to be behind."
She was so drawn to the project that she told Coogler she would pay her own lodging costs during filming.
"She has the most intense team mentality," Coogler says. "She said, 'Put that money on the screen. I'll put myself up.'"
When the film lost key financing for its shoestring budget of less than $1 million, Spencer took on an executive-producer role and raised money.
"I shamelessly started calling my friends I knew had deep pockets, friends in which 25 grand wouldn't hurt. And I kicked in some of my own," she says. "I didn't want any of Ryan's vision to be sacrificed."
Spencer also tapped her Hollywood pals to appear in the film, including Ahna O'Reilly, Kevin Durand and One Tree Hill's Chad Michael Murray. The latter two were chosen to play the officers most directly involved in the shooting.  The 6-foot-5 Durand had to be brought in "on my insistence," Spencer says; he didn't want to be known as the guy responsible for Grant's death, even on film.
"I told him that was why we needed him ... to bring the humanity to that officer."
Coogler says Spencer was a "director's dream," never complaining during the marathon shoots, which were extended  to save money. He recalls putting the actress "through the wringer" in one emotional all-night shoot in which her character finds out about her son's death.
'If I had a crystal ball ... '
Rather than take the next day off, as scheduled, Spencer was back  the next night. Coogler was huddling with Jordan in the company's tiny trailer when he heard laughter in the parking lot.
"I left to see what was going on, and Octavia had all of my friends, who are extras in the film, in the parking lot making them all die laughing," Coogler says. "She was just there supporting. She didn't need to be. That's what kind of person she is."
Jordan says Spencer was undaunted during a scene shot in San Quentin State Prison, where actual prisoners were used as extras. In fact, she reveled in it.
"When (Coogler) would say 'cut,' they were hollering and hooting at Octavia and rushing over to try to talk to her. She was loving all the attention from the inmates," Jordan says.  "They were crazy over her."
Despite Fruitvale's critical acclaim on the festival circuit, Spencer says, it's too early to even think about its awards potential.
"Man, if I had a crystal ball ... ," she says. "I don't know if this will take us down that road again. But I can tell you this, I'm really proud of this film." 
