Top Democrats and civil rights leaders are calling for the Justice Department to examine bringing federal civil rights charges against George Zimmerman, after a Florida jury acquitted the 29-year-old neighborhood watchman in the shooting death of unarmed 17-year-old TrayvonMartin.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) and Benjamin Jealous, the NAACP president, were among those to call for federal action, as the fallout from the Zimmerman verdict played a prominent role on the main political talk shows on Sunday. 
Jealous told CNN's "State of the Union" that the NAACP had already spoken to top Justice officials.
"I think the Justice Department is going to take a look at this," Reid said on NBC's "Meet the Press."
"This isn't over with and I think that's good. That's our system. It's gotten better, not worse."
"The trial happened, the verdict came in, that does not exhaust the legal options of his family and the bigger community issue of civil rights," the civil rights activist Al Sharpton said on the same show.
But even some Democrats appearing on Sunday shows said Attorney General Eric Holder had a tough call when it came to potential federal charges [#x20ac]" not least because trying Zimmerman after he was found not guilty in Florida could give off at least the appearance of "double jeopardy."
The response to the verdict also underscored that Washington policymakers might be just as divided on the TrayvonMartin case as the country at large.
The Saturday night verdict in Sanford, Fla., prompted protests around the country, and responses that proved that emotions were still raw more than a year after Martin was killed in February 2012.
Several GOP lawmakers and strategists said that, at the very least, the jury made the right call in acquitting Zimmerman. Others, like Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) and Karl Rove, accused President Obama of politicizing the case.
On the Democratic side, Rep. Karen Bass (Calif.) called the verdict "devastating." Former Gov Eliot Spitzer (N.Y.) and Rep. Chaka Fattah (Pa.) said it was a travesty that the killing of an unarmed teenager walking home from a convenience store could go unpunished.
Those responses also made clear that, even with Saturday's acquittal, the Zimmerman-Martin case will resonate for some time.
In addition to possible federal charges, a lawyer for Martin's family would not rule out a potential civil suit. And, as Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.) put it, people in the United States are likely to engage in a separate moral debate over Zimmerman's actions at the same time as the federal government examines whether to bring civil rights charges.
"We'll be talking about this case for a long time to come, because they have to decide on the facts of the case, but there are moral dimensions beyond the case that obviously we have to come to grips with," Cole said on ABC's "This Week."
Appearing separately on "Fox News Sunday," King and Rove said that Democrats had tried to politicize the tragic death of a young man immediately after Martin was killed.
Obama said publicly last year that "if I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon." Rep. Bobby Rush (D-Ill.) wore a hoodie on the House floor similar to the one Martin was wearing on the night he was killed. Both Obama and congressional Democrats have taken a hands-off approach to the case in recent months, however.
"We need a president to bring us together, not rip us apart," Rove said. "And I hope the Justice Department does not respond to the ill-advised recommendation of the NAACP to continue this controversy."
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, a Republican, said that the verdict proved that the U.S. judicial system  which he called the best in the world  was color-blind.
But Benjamin Crump, a lawyer for Martin's family, pushed back on that assertion  responding directly to one of Zimmerman's lawyers, who said after the verdict that his client would have never been charged if he was black.
"Nobody in America worries that black men won't be convicted in court," Crump said on ABC. "I would challenge anybody to go to courts all over America, just sit in the back and watch how the justice system plays out when it comes to black males."
Democrats also called for repealing Florida's "stand your ground" law, which allows people who are afraid for their lives greater latitude to respond with deadly force.
Spitzer, a former state attorney general and prosecutor, agreed with Perry that the U.S. judicial system was the best in the world.
But he added that "the judicial system is not perfect. And in this case it has failed."
Spitzer and Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), also a former prosecutor, noted that the Justice Department had a lot to think about it as it mulled federal charges.
"It's in a very dicey position because there has been a criminal case," Spitzer said. "Double jeopardy is a fundamental principle in our American judicial system, as it should be. And so it's going to be hard for them to come back at the defendant."
Ben Goad and Alexander Bolton contributed to this story.
