On most Sundays, the steps of the John Marshall Courthouse in downtown Richmond are deserted. But the Sunday after the Saturday that a Florida jury acquitted George Zimmerman of murdering TrayvonMartin was no ordinary Sunday. 
While court was not in session, more than 250 people convened a civil court of public opinion on the north steps of the dark-bricked hall of justice -- unified by the feeling that the system had failed the 17-year-old victim and searching for a way to channel anger, fear and despair into change.
"A system can't fail those it was designed to protect," read one of the many handmade signs scattered among the diverse crowd of black and white, young and old, who assembled at sunset to hear preachers, activists and elected officials.
"Stand your ground against racism," read another sign.
Richmond activist James J.J. Minor, 38, told the gathering to have faith.
"Justice will be served," he said. "It may be on layaway, but it will be served."
And the Rev. Uzziah Harris, 37, offered a prayer.
"We're praying for healing now," he said. "Even when man does wrong, God will have the final say-so."
Leaders urged their followers to view the verdict as a call to action, more than an opportunity to vent outrage over a decision that can't be undone.
"The verdict has been rendered, now the work begins," read a statement issued by the Richmond NAACP's president, Kim Allen. She urged supporters to organize to fight laws like Florida's "stand your ground" law that have what Allen termed "loopholes for injustice, racial profiling and other acts of discrimination.
"It is our responsibility to take the actions necessary to protect the rights and lives of ourselves, our families and our communities," she added.
Del. Delores L. McQuinn, D-Richmond, was still dressed in her Sunday best when she addressed the crowd. She said she went to bed angry Saturday night, and woke up angry Sunday morning before she went to church.
"As I look ... I see Trayvon in many faces of these African-American men," she said, reflecting on her anger and the "senseless murder" of the teen armed only with a pack of Skittles in his pocket.
"What do we do?" she asked rhetorically, before offering an impassioned plea for action so that in her mind, this latest rally, this latest eulogy for a life cut short, wouldn't end when everyone went home.
Vote, McQuinn said. Become involved in the classroom, mentor someone. Start making a difference, one person at a time in your community.
"Get mad -- get mad as hell," McQuinn said. "But after you get mad, get up and do something."
Fighting her own emotions, she added: "Love is always stronger than hate. Always."
The rally ended with a march around the deserted courthouse building. But those in attendance seemed determined to seek change. Some saw it as a matter of life and death.
Mary Gresham listened as she held her daughter, Arielle.
"They're not going to take my baby," she said.
jnolan@timesdispatch.com
(804) 649-6061
