WITH POLICE and civic leaders urging calm, a jury has started deliberating George Zimmerman's fate after hearing duelling portraits of the neighbourhood watch captain: a cop wannabe who took the law into his own hands or a well-meaning volunteer who shot unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin because he feared for his life.
As the jury got the murder case, police in this Orlando suburb went on national television to plead for peace in Sanford, Florida, and across America, no matter what the verdict. 
"There is no party in this case who wants to see any violence," Seminole County Sheriff Don Eslinger said. "We have an expectation upon this announcement that our community will continue to act peacefully."
There were big protests in Sanford and other cities across America last year when authorities waited 44 days before arresting Zimmerman.
About a dozen protesters, most of them from outside central Florida, gathered outside the courthouse as the jury deliberated. Martin supporters outnumbered those for Zimmerman.
During closing arguments, Zimmerman's lawyers put a concrete slab and two life-size cardboard cutouts in front of the jury box in one last attempt to convince the panel Zimmerman shot the unarmed black 17-year-old in self- defence while his head was being slammed against the pavement.
Attorney Mark O'Mara used the slab to make the point that it could serve as a weapon. He showed the cutouts of Zimmerman and Martin to demonstrate that the teenager was considerably taller. And he displayed a computer-animated depiction of the fight based on Zimmerman's account.
He said prosecutors hadn't met their burden of proving Zimmerman's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Instead, he said, the case was built on "could've beens" and "maybes".
"If it hasn't been proven, it's just not there," O'Mara said. "You can't fill in the gaps. You can't connect the dots. You're not allowed to."
In a rebuttal, prosecutor John Guy accused Zimmerman of telling "so many lies". He said Martin's last emotion was fear as Zimmerman followed him through the gated townhouse community on the rainy night of February 26, 2012.
"Isn't that every child's worst nightmare, to be followed on the way home in the dark by a stranger?" Guy said. "Isn't that every child's worst fear?"
The sequestered jury of six women - all but one of them white - will have to sort through a lot of conflicting testimony.
Jurors deliberated for three-and-a- half hours before stopping on Friday evening. They will resume deliberations on Saturday morning. Zimmerman, 29, is charged with second-degree murder, but the jury will also be allowed to consider manslaughter. Under Florida's laws involving gun crimes, manslaughter could end up carrying a penalty as heavy as the one for second- degree murder: life in prison.
The judge's decision to allow the jury to consider manslaughter was a potentially heavy blow to the defence: It could give jurors who aren't convinced the shooting amounted to murder a way to hold Zimmerman responsible for the killing.
To win a manslaughter conviction, prosecutors must show only that Zimmerman killed without lawful justification.
O'Mara dismissed the prosecution's contention that Zimmerman was a "crazy guy" patrolling his townhouse complex and "looking for people to harass" when he saw Martin. O'Mara also disputed prosecutors' claim that Zimmerman snapped when he saw Martin because there had been a rash of break-ins in the area, mostly by young black men.
The lawyer said Zimmerman at no point showed ill will, hatred or spite during his confrontation with Martin - which is what prosecutors must prove for second-degree murder.
In contrast, prosecutors argued Zimmerman showed ill will when he whispered profanities to a police dispatcher over his cellphone while following Martin through the neighbourhood. They said Zimmerman "profiled" the teenager as a criminal.
AP
--------------------
CAPTION:
Day in court: George Zimmerman, standing, with his legal team and, inset, protesters outside the court in Sanford, Florida.
Picture: Reuters
