With chants and prayers, sermons and signs, outrage over a jury's decision to clear George Zimmerman in the shooting of an unarmed black teenager poured from street protests and church pulpits yesterday amid calls for federal civil rights charges to be filed in the case.
Demonstrations broke out across the country in support of the family of TrayvonMartin as protesters decried the not guilty verdict as a miscarriage of justice. 
The National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People and protesters called for federal civil rights charges against Zimmerman, who was acquitted on Saturday in Martin's shooting death in February last year, which unleashed a national debate over racial profiling, self-defence and equal justice.
The Justice Department said it was looking into the case to determine whether federal prosecutors should file criminal civil rights charges now that Zimmerman has been acquitted in the state case.
Meanwhile, President Barack Obama and religious and civil rights leaders urged calm in the hope of ensuring peaceful demonstrations in the wake of a case that has become an emotional flash point.
In New York City, hundreds of protesters marched into Times Square last night, zigzagging through Manhattan's streets to avoid police lines. Sign-carrying marchers thronged the busy intersection, chanting "Justice for! TrayvonMartin!" as they made their way from Union Square, blocking traffic for more than an hour before moving on.
In San Francisco and Los Angeles - where an earlier protest was dispersed with beanbag rounds - police closed streets as protesters marched to condemn Zimmerman's acquittal.
Rand Powdrill, 41, of San Leandro, said he came to the San Francisco march with about 400 others to "protest (against) the execution of an innocent black teenager".
"If our voices can't be heard, then this is just going to keep going on," he said.
At Manhattan's Middle Collegiate Church, many congregants wore hooded shirts - the same thing Martin was wearing the night he was shot - in a show of solidarity. Jessica Nacinovich said she could only feel disappointment and sadness over the verdict.
"I'm sure jurors did what they felt was right in accordance with the law but maybe the law is wrong, maybe society is wrong; there's a lot that needs fixing," she said.
About 200 people turned out for a rally and march in Chicago, saying the verdict was symbolic of lingering racism in the US. Seventy-three-year-old Maya Miller said the case reminded her of the 1955 slaying of Emmitt Till, a 14-year-old from Chicago who was murdered by a group of white men while visiting Mississippi. Till's killing galvanised the civil rights movement.
"Fifty-eight years and nothing's changed," Miller said, pausing to join a chant to "Justice for Trayvon, not one more".
Protesters also gathered in Miami, Philadelphia and Washington, DC as well as a host of other cities.
In Miami, more than 200 people gathered for a vigil. "You can't justify murder", read one poster. Another read "Don't worry about more riots. Worry about more Zimmermans."
In Philadelphia, about 700 protesters marched from Love Park to the Liberty Bell, chanting Martin's name and "No justice, no peace".
"We hope this will begin a movement to end discrimination against young black men," said Johnathan Cooper, one of the protest's organisers.
"And to empower black people and get them involved in the system."
Hundreds gathered in Union Square in New York City to voice their passions over the verdict, hoisting placards with images of Martin.
Civil rights leaders, including the Reverends Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton, urged peace in the wake of the verdict. Jackson said the legal system "failed justice", but violence was not the answer.
But not all the protesters heeded those calls in the demonstrations that broke out after the verdict.
In Oakland, California, some demonstrators broke windows, burned US flags and started street fires. Some marchers vandalised a police car and used spray paint to scrawl anti-police graffiti on roads.
In Los Angeles, police said a crowd of about 100 protesters surrounded an officer and eventually had to be dispersed by officers firing beanbag rounds. - Sapa-AP
