TRAYVONMARTIN was on top of George Zimmerman and struggling with him when the neighborhood watchman fired a fatal shot into the teenager's chest.
That's the testimony jurors heard Tuesday from famed forensic pathologist Vincent DiMaio, who said the 17-year-old was conscious for maybe 10 to 15 seconds before the oxygen ran out of his body and he died. 
"This is consistent with Mr. Zimmerman's account that Mr. Martin was over him, leaning forward at the time he was shot," the pathologist said.
DiMaio - a key defense witness who has testified previously at the high profile murder trials of wife-killing cop Drew Peterson and record producer Phil Spector - was paid $2,400 and buttressed the defense argument that Trayvon was the aggressor.
But DiMaio conceded he couldn't say who threw the first punch. He also got the attention of two women on the jury who are involved in animal rescue when he admitted that he runs ballistics tests by shooting live animals.
Defense attorney Mark O'Mara told Judge Debra Nelson that the defense could finish presenting its case Wednesday, but did not say whether Zimmerman would testify.
Prosecutors contend Zimmerman profiled Martin and tailed him against a police dispatcher's advice before killing the unarmed black teenager. They say Zimmerman, who ran his local neighborhood watch outside Orlando, was frustrated over recent break-ins and his thwarted career as a cop.
Zimmerman's lawyers say he killed Martin in self-defense after the teen jumped him and slammed his head on the ground.
Before DiMaio testified, a legal battle over a virtual fight erupted.
Zimmerman's lawyers want to show jurors an "Avatar"-like depiction of the fatal battle.
Prosecutors objected, saying the depiction is likely to be flawed because there were no witnesses who saw the entire fight.
Nelson has not decided whether the jury will be allowed to see it.The judge is also mulling whether to allow defense lawyers to show Martin's text messages and a Facebook post.
In the texts, Martin purportedly recounts a fight he had.
In the Facebook post, a half-brother asks him about fighting.
