Beth Kassab, Orlando Sentinel: "Like it or not, the jury got this one right. Nobody wants to see two parents who already lost their teenage son also lose out on what they saw as justice. As painful as it may be, though, acquitting George Zimmerman was the only verdict the jury could logically reach. The state simply didn't prove second-degree murder. Or manslaughter. As much as I don't like many of the choices Zimmerman made the night he killed Trayvon Martin, the evidence presented at trial gave way to more than one reasonable doubt about Zimmerman's guilt." 
Stephen Henderson, Detroit Free Press: "What do I make of this for my 9-year-old son? A little brown-skinned boy who sometimes wears a hoodie, and who someday might be walking home from the store with a pack of Skittles. Life is dangerous for black children, we all know that. And frankly, my most primal fear for my son, growing up in Detroit, is that he'll become the victim of the senseless violence that African-American children and adults rain down on each other all the time."
John Lott, Fox News: "The George Zimmerman case should never have been brought. Saturday night after the 'not guilty' verdict was delivered, State Attorney Angela Corey justified bringing the case 'to put the facts out there.' But criminal cases should never be brought simply to put the facts before the public. No one should be charged with a crime unless prosecutors themselves really believe that the person committed a crime. Yet, the prosecution and their own experts' language consistently showed a lack of certainty."
Ta-Nehisi Coates, The Atlantic: "The message of this episode is unfortunate. By Florida law, in any violent confrontation ending in a disputed act of lethal self-defense, without eye witnesses, the advantage goes to the living. An intelligent, self-interested observer of this case, who happens to live in Florida, would not be wrong to do as Zimmerman did -- buy a gun, master the finer points of Florida self-defense law and then wait."
Jelani Cobb, The New Yorker: "The familiarity dulled the sharp edges of the tragedy. The decision the six jurors reached on Saturday evening will inspire anger, frustration and despair, but little surprise, and this is the most deeply saddening aspect of the entire affair. From the outset -- throughout the 44 days it took for there to be an arrest, and then in the 16 months it took to for the case to come to trial -- there was a nagging suspicion that it would culminate in disappointment. Call this historical profiling."
Rich Benjamin, Salon: "Even before the verdict, the Police Establishment warned black people not to riot. ... The chase, the trial, the warnings not to riot, the acquittal all compound the passive-aggressive profiling of black and brown people." 
