July 12--Not since the trial of O.J. Simpson has a criminal case tinged with race riveted the country the way the George Zimmerman trial in Florida has.
Vernellia Randall, a local law expert in race relations, said the case fascinates people because it challenges views of what constitutes racism, particularly among people who strongly want to believe we have a color-blind society.
Many have said race was involved in the delay in charging Zimmerman after he shot and killed an unarmed TrayvonMartin, claiming self-defense. Others wonder why more attention has not been focused on Zimmerman's right to defend himself when allegedly threatened by Martin. 
The verdict could come any day as jurors began deliberations Friday afternoon, and local residents have been paying close attention to what's happened inside that Orlando suburb courtroom.
"It could go both ways," Kristina Butler, of West Chester Twp., said of the verdict. "I think it's a shame a young man was gunned down. I want to believe (Zimmerman), but there's too much racial prejudice in the world today, so I think the facts need to speak for themselves."
Randall said TrayvonMartin was threatening because of his color.
"Because he was a young black man walking in a place where he was perceived not to belong," she said, adding the same thing could happen to a white man in a predominately black neighborhood, as "we get suspicious. Is that racism? I think it is."
But the outcome would have been different, she said, if a black man had followed a white man because he found him suspicious, and the white man was shot to death. In that case, Randall said, it would be "impossible to imagine" that the black man wouldn't be arrested immediately.
Zimmerman has pleaded not guilty to second degree murder. On the night of the scuffle in February 2012, Martin was visiting his father and his father's fiancee at the same townhouse complex where Zimmerman lived.
Zimmerman observed Martin while driving in his neighborhood, called police and the fight ensued after the neighborhood watch volunteer got out of his vehicle. Zimmerman claims Martin was slamming his head into the concrete pavement when he fired his gun.
Even though prosecutors said Zimmerman "assumed TrayvonMartin was a criminal," Randall said that explanation leaves out why -- because Martin was black -- and that factor is what is driving public interest in the story.
The question of racial motivations is separate from the question of whether Zimmerman is guilty of murder, or as added Thursday, of manslaughter, Randall said.
"That is what we're not discussing, and we're using this trial as a proxy for it," she said. "And I think that's a mistake."
Bob Amend, of Hamilton, said he believes the trial is definitely racially motivated and that the jury should find Zimmerman not guilty.
"I think he was stupid, but it was self-defense," Amend said.
Other area residents said they haven't made up their minds about how the case should be decided.
"They were both in the wrong in the sense that, do I believe he should've been shot? No. But do I think Zimmerman was scared and used self-defense? Yes," said Madison Johnson, of Cincinnati.
Johnson said she believes if Zimmerman were black and Martin were white, this case would not be getting the same media attention, nationally.
Kathleen Hart, a Xavier University psychology professor, said the news media is partly to blame for sensationalizing the Zimmerman trial.
"It's a cyclical thing. If it gets reported to us every night, people are going to comment or radio talk show hosts will bring it up, and of course, people will voice their opinions," Hart said.
On Thursday, Judge Debra Nelson ruled that jurors can consider the lesser charge of manslaughter, as requested by prosecutors, and that was included in the jury instructions Friday.
Tom Hagel, a University of Dayton law professor, said the instruction allows for a "compromise verdict," allowing the jury to go with another option if jurors find that prosecutors didn't make the case for murder, but don't want to let Zimmerman go completely free. He said jurors probably felt "incredible pressure," given the national attention the case has garnered.
But whatever the decision jurors reach, most of those interviewed by this newspaper said there will be a public uproar. During the 44 days police waited to arrest Zimmerman, there were marches and protests around the country, including some in southwest Ohio.
"There will be protests, people carrying signs and yelling in Florida because no matter what the verdict is, there are people who believe Trayvon was completely innocent and this is yet another indicator of continuing racism," Hart said. "Then there are people on the other side who feel George Zimmerman is unfairly prosecuted."
Some believe the protests will turn violent.
"There will probably be riots," Amend said.
"People are going to be upset,"Johnson said. "Either way, people will freak out."
While security around the courthouse will most likely be heightened, many think that Zimmerman will need protection regardless of the verdict.
"If found innocent, he won't survive it," Butler said. "I think he won't be safe no matter where he goes. He's not going to be safe if he goes to prison and he's not going to be safe if free and walking the street."
___ (c)2013 the Hamilton JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) Visit the Hamilton JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) at www.journal-news.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
