July 13--For the past three weeks we have been following the George Zimmerman's murder trial in a Florida courtroom as the defence lawyer tried to paint TrayvonMartin, the unarmed 17-year-old murder victim, as a weed smoking thug who deserved to die. Left up to the defence, Martin's life was worth less than nothing, especially when compared to that of the superior and privileged white son of a judge, George Zimmerman.
The prosecutor and the defence both tried to minimize the impact of race in this case, but is it possible? For starters, a 17-year-old unarmed black teenager was gunned down on his way from the store on a dark rainy night. The perpetrator, a white adult male was not arrested or charged even after admitting to killing the unarmed youth. He was taken into custody by police and then released. It was after international outcry that George Zimmerman was charged with second degree murder of TrayvonMartin.
Now, the murder victim is portrayed as a worthless ganja smoking menace, whose life is not worth the price of the bullet that killed him. What is wrong with this picture and how did things get to this point? It does not matter if you are white, black, Indian or Chinese, a child has been gunned down in cold blood, and it could have been your child!
Race relations in the USA are tense at best. The long history of police abuse and brutality of black Americans secondary to racism is well documented. Additionally, the abuses blacks often suffer at the hands of whites are also well documented. The scary thing is race-based crimes are often downplayed and not dealt with according to the punishment the crime warrants.
Remember Rodney King? King was beaten to near death by LAPD and even though it was captured on video, the cops got off scot-free, resulting in one of the USA's biggest race riots Also, racists in the Southern United States often get away with atrocious crimes against blacks. So why are they suddenly trying to crucify America's sweetie pie cook show host Paula Deen as a racist?
Following a law suit filed by a black woman, a past employee of Deen and her brother, Paula made the mistake of admitting that she used the 'N' word. Sadly, she is among millions of people both black and white. The difference is Deen admitted it on national TV and the rest were smart enough to deny it. Following her admission to using this racial slur, she was dropped by her TV station and most of her sponsors.
She beseeched to the world and cried openly that she is not a racist. Is Paula Deen a racist? Who knows! The fact is, her drama will undoubtedly influence the George Zimmermann's murder trial drama that is currently playing out the Florida courtroom.
How exactly will Deen's racist behaviour affect the George Zimmerman murder trial? Your guess is as good as mine. The one thing is for sure is that it forces us as a society to acknowledge that race is a factor in our interaction in America today. We may dress it up in bright red lipstick and fancy weaves and or high heel backless shoes and sexy strapless summer dresses; you may even disguise it behind a law degree or an MBA or even an Armani suit and tie. It is what it is and, until we meet it head on, it will always lurk beneath the surface waiting for an opportunity to shine like the ugly dirty, moldy dime that we are always trying to clean with pricey metal cleaner only the tarnish keeps re-appearing shortly after each cleaning.
George Zimmerman and Paula Deen are the untreated cancer that has gone untreated in America for so long that it has not only taken root, but has metastasized. The question is, is it terminal?
___ (c)2013 the Caribbean News Now (Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands) Visit the Caribbean News Now (Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands) at www.caribbeannewsnow.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
