The undeniable truth of the TrayvonMartin case is that, based on fevered assumptions about a 17-year-old black teenager, George Zimmerman provoked a confrontation in which he ended up shooting a young man to death. 
As Zimmerman's trial closed Friday, his defense lawyer declared in summation that the unarmed Martin was to blame.
"We know he had the opportunity to go home, and he didn't do that," Mark O'Mara said, brazenly turning the world on its head. "The person who decided to make the night violent was the guy who didn't go home when he had the chance."
The six-member jury will decide whether prosecutors met the burden of proving that Zimmerman's actions fit the definitions of either second-degree murder or manslaughter. Those judgments will entail wrestling with whether, in the end, Zimmerman can be credited with shooting Martin in self-defense, however culpable Zimmerman's own conduct was.
That he bears damnable responsibility, as distinct from legal guilt, for Martin's death is clear. Zimmerman alone instigated what happened in Sanford, Fla., on the night of Feb. 26, 2012.
He was scouting for burglars on neighborhood watch and, of critical importance, he carried a gun. Spotting Martin, he profiled a black teenager in a hoodie as a likely criminal. In fact, Martin was merely returning home from the store with a soda and a package of Skittles.
Zimmerman shadowed Martin and continued to do so after being instructed to stop by a police dispatcher. At one point, Martin told his girlfriend by cellphone that a "creepy-ass cracker" was following him.
What happened next may never be known and is at the heart of the jury's deliberations.
Zimmerman claimed in pre-trial statements that Trayvon suddenly punched him, pinned him to the ground, knocked his head against the sidewalk and grabbed for Zimmerman's gun. It was then, Zimmerman said, that he shot Trayvon out of fear for his life.
Prosecutors poked holes in this story - noting, for example, that Zimmerman's modest head wounds were hardly consistent with the violent struggle he described. But, since no one else alive witnessed the fight, the only word anyone has is the killer's. Plus his lawyer's blame-the-victim contention that everything went wrong because Martin didn't just walk home.
After Zimmerman groundlessly presumed the worst about a teenager who was doing nothing wrong. After Zimmerman took it upon himself to play cop after the real cops had told him to stand down. After Zimmerman brought a gun to a confrontation that could easily escalate into a fatality.
Whatever the jury's verdict, Zimmerman started it that night - and finished it with a bullet.
