'Thoroughly confused. Zimmerman doesn't last a year before the hood catches up to him.' - Giants wide receiver Victor Cruz 
 (left), sounding off on Twitter  
  Some were angry, shouting "No justice, no peace." 
  Others just cried "No!" - with entire families breaking into tears and holding each other. 
   Some 100 protesters gathered in disbelief outside the Seminole County courthouse last night, as many worried that the verdict gives George Zimmerman and other vigilante neighborhood watchmen a license to kill. 
  "I at least thought he was going to get something - something!" Rosie Barron, 50, told The Post tearfully outside the courthouse. 
  "He should've gotten something. He was told to stand down," said Ed Barnett, 57, of Liberty City. 
  "What can we do?" he asked.  
  That question was answered in an offensive tweet by New York Giants wide receiver Victor Cruz: 
  "Thoroughly confused. Zimmerman doesn't last a year before the hood catches up to him," he tweeted. 
  Other Twitter celebs channeled their outrage into commentary and condolences. 
  "Had a gun-toting TrayvonMartin stalked an unarmed George Zimmerman, and then shot him to death . . . DO I EVEN NEED TO COMPLETE THIS SENTENCE?" tweeted Michael Moore. 
  "Say a prayer for Trayvon Martni's family," tweeted hip-hop eminence Russell Simmons. 
  "Florida is a parallel universe," noted Alec Baldwin. 
  Comedian Kevin Hart - whose current hit movie is "Kevin Hart: Let Me Explain," offered this: 
  "Michael Vick went to jail for killing a DOG and Zimmerman killed an innocent human and goes free." 
  Donald Trump weighed in on the side of the defense. 
  "Zimmerman is no angel but the lack of evidence and the concept of self-defense, especially in Florida law, gave the jury little other choice," he wrote. 
  Peacable mini-protests popped up throughout the city. In Harlem, Ian Jackson joined a dozen other neighbors in holding "Honk for Trayvon" signs. 
  "You hope that America will grow," said Jackson, 31. "You hope that America will learn. You hope that America will realize the dream" of equality. 
  The NYPD extended officers' 4 p.m.-to-midnight shift, to increase the police presence around the city in the hours following the verdict , police sources said. 
   With  Post Wire Services 
