After much anticipation following flight delays, one 10-minute transfer between planes and a helicopter ride that finally brought the Ska Fest headliner to Victoria from Morocco with only a few hours to spare, Yasiin Bey, a.k.a. Mos Def, took the stage. 
"Peace sign for Trayvon," he said in tribute to slain American teen TrayvonMartin, whose shooter was found not guilty Saturday.
"We don't die, we live forever."
Some commentary on justice wasn't unexpected from Mos Def. Last week, the hip-hop artist was the subject of headlines for voluntarily undergoing the force-feeding procedures common to Guantanamo Bay, where Muslim prisoners have announced a hunger strike for Ramadan.
But it was also about music and Mos Def gave the small audience at Ship Point some love with cover tunes (Notorious B.I.G, Human Beings) and originals including Fake Bonanza, Auditorium, Life in Marvelous Times and the yet-to-bereleased Young Love Never Dies. Mos Def's performance marked the end of the 14th annual festival, which saw more than 30 artists and groups take stages around the city beginning July 9. Festival organizer Dane Roberts said there were a few other difficulties for some of those who came from afar.
"There were a lot of challenges in terms of flight delays," he said.
But Roberts saw a silver lining in some lineup shifts, like when David Hillyard and Rocksteady 7 went in for J Boog.
"That made it so that a lot of the people who were roots and reggae fans were exposed to some good traditional ska jazz Cuban music," he said.
It worked for Jesse Fraser, 21, who called Rocksteady 7a highlight even though he didn't know the group before.
Fraser won passes for the festival on Facebook and attended events all week. He said what he liked about the crowds at the festival was their diversity.
"It's nice to see people who wouldn't normally listen to this kind of music come out and enjoy it," Fraser said.
Others, like Amanda Hawkes and Elena Lockhart came for one specific show (Dub FX).
Eli Konsorado saw Ska Fest from the stage, as a member of local reggae-ska-punk band Hillside Hooligans.
"We were the very first group to play Skafest this year on opening night, it was a huge honour," he said. Konsorado said he's performed at the festival for the past five years.
"Skafest is really like a big family event for the performers, who've been coming back year after year," he said.
Near the end of his set, Mos Def announced he was going to do something decidedly Canadian and dropped his own rendition of Toronto artist Drake's YOLO. asmart@timescolonist.com
