MEXICO CITY
Man elected mayor
three years after 'death'
Last Sunday, nearly three years after he was officially declared dead, Lenin Carballido was narrowly elected mayor of San Agustin Amatengo, a small town in Mexico's Oaxaca state. Carballido faked his own demise in 2010, according to Mexico's Reforma newspaper, in order to evade charges stemming from a 2004 sexual assault. With police on his trail, Carballido "died" and obtained a coroner's certificate in September 2010, affirming he had succumbed to "natural causes" after slipping into a diabetic coma. The charges were dropped. Carballido's resurrection occurred this year when he ran as a local candidate for Mexico's leftist Democratic Revolutionary Party, beating his opponent Sunday by a margin of 11 votes. 
BAGHDAD
Ramadan in Iraq
opens with bloodshed
Insurgents in Iraq launched two days of bloody assaults at the start of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan that killed at least 31 people, most of them members of the security forces serving in restive Sunni-dominated areas, authorities said Thursday. The killings are the latest in a wave of bloodshed that has claimed the lives of more than 2,600 people since the start of April.
CAIRO
Officials chase rumours
that Hamas aided Morsi
Prosecutors will investigate allegations that Egypt's ousted president escaped from prison during the 2011 revolution with help from the Palestinian militant group Hamas, officials said Thursday. Chief prosecutor Hesham Barakat has received testimonies from a court in the Suez Canal city of Ismailia that will be the base for an investigation by state security prosecutors into the jailbreak by Mohammed Morsi and more than 30 other Muslim Brotherhood leaders.
SANFORD, Fla.
As murder case nears end,
racial tensions are exposed
Police in Sanford, Fla., prepared for possible protests or even violence as a high-profile U.S. trial in the murder of an unarmed black teen neared its end Thursday. Neighbourhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman has pleaded not guilty in the shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin, saying he fired in self-defence during a nighttime confrontation in February 2012 in his Florida gated community, where Martin was visiting family. Zimmerman says Martin was slamming his head into the concrete pavement when he fired his gun. The case drew national attention and protests when Zimmerman wasn't arrested for weeks after the shooting, and racial tensions have been exposed.
COVINGTON, Ky.
Website found defamatory,
ordered to pay $338,000
A federal jury has found that a gossip website and its operator defamed a former Cincinnati Bengals cheerleader and has awarded her $338,000 in damages. Jurors in federal court in Covington, Ky., on Thursday found the 2009 posts on the Scottsdale, Ariz.-based website thedirty.com about Sarah Jones were substantially false. They also found website operator Nik Richie acted with malice or reckless disregard in posting anonymous submissions. One of the posts alleged Jones had sex with every Bengals player, and the other said she probably had two sexually transmitted diseases.
