AMERICA was braced for the threat of race riots last night after a neighbourhood watch volunteer was acquitted of murdering an unarmed black teenager.
City leaders and police appealed for calm as George Zimmerman walked free from court following the killing of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin in February last year.
Zimmerman, 29, who has been warned to wear a bullet-proof vest if he ventures outside, went into hiding after receiving death threats on Twitter. 
There were also reports of sporadic violence at angry demonstrations across the US - with protesters in California smashing windows and starting fires.
Zimmerman's five-week trial had divided the nation, with many believing the killing and subsequent police handling of case was racially motivated.
Cops failed to act for several weeks until a national outcry led prosecutors to bring charges against Zimmerman, who was described in court as a wannabe police officer.
He shot Martin during a violent struggle after the youngster was seen acting suspiciously in a gated complex which Zimmerman patrolled in Sanford, Florida.
He claimed Martin had gone for his gun after he challenged the youngster over his behaviour.
After more than 16 hours of deliberation a jury unanimously decided that Zimmerman had acted in self defence. They ruled that he "justifiably" killed the unarmed lad because he believed his life was being threatened.
And they rejected prosecution claims that screams heard on a recording of a 911 call by Zimmerman were actually Martin pleading for his life. Following J Saturday's verdict, tens of thousands vented their fury on Twitter. One described Zimmerman as "a dead man walking".
Martin's heartbroken parents Tracy and Sybrina, from Miami, were not in court to hear the verdict. But they too called for calm, despite admitting their disappointment at the controversial acquittal.
Tracy tweeted: "God blessed me & Sybrina with Tray and even in his death I know my baby is proud of the FIGHT we along with all of you put up for him. GOD BLESS." Devastated Sybrina told wellwishers that she was drawing strength from her faith.
She wrote on Twitter: "Lord during my darkest hour I lean on you. You are all that I have."
Police later revealed that authorities in Sanford and other parts of the US were taking precautions against the possibility of mass protests or civil unrest.
County Sheriff Don Eslinger said: "I'm sure none of us wants to see any violence.
"We have an expectation upon this announcement that our community will continue to act peacefully."
But even as he spoke crowds gathered outside the courthouse to voice their outrage. Many were chanting: "The system has failed us!"
Defence lawyer Mark O'Mara revealed that Zimmerman and his wife Shellie had been forced into living "like hermits" because of the strength of feeling surrounding the court case.
He said they had not even been able to go to work because of fears of being attacked.
Mr O'Mara added: "Although he is very, very happy about the court's decision I think that Mr Zimmerman just wishes he could wave a magic wand and get his life back.
"He and his wife have to be cautious and protective of their safety because there is a fringe element who have said on Twitter and elsewhere that they want revenge."
Meanwhile Beyonc called for a silent tribute in memory of Martin at a concert during her Mrs Carter Show World Tour at the Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, Tennessee.
The concert had started about 30 minutes after news of the Zimmerman verdict began to circulate through the crowd.
The singer told fans: "I'd like to have a moment of silence for Trayvon", before singing a chorus of I Will Always Love You.
even in his to death I know he is proud of the fight we and you put up for him MARTIN'S DAD TRACY
