As worshipers began filing into Tabernacle Missionary Baptist Church, youth pastor Kevin Jones, whose duty it was to give the sermon the morning after the George Zimmerman verdict, shook his head.
No, he would not be addressing the not-guilty verdict in his sermon, he said softly. Back in 2012, when neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman shot 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, Jones was one of many black pastors who expressed their sadness.
Jones climbed the steep steps of the venerable church in the north-end Sapodilla neighborhood, a center of black community and commerce for nearly a century, going back to the days when black and white people officially lived apart. 
Like the steps, the arc of racial justice is steep. It requires pacing oneself, rather than bleeding out in rage.
Despite Jones' decision not to feed the distress and anger there might be in his flock, the verdict was on their minds. Zimmerman, a white Hispanic man, had gone free after shooting the unarmed black teenager on a street in Sanford.
Ralph Pittman Sr., another Tabernacle minister, was urging a small group of well-dressed women in the front pews to focus not on what may have been lost, but what still remains: "We still have hope," he said. Amen to that. The middle-aged women nodded in agreement that they had all been through worse and survived it, in terms of civil rights struggles.
"You have to look at where you have come from," he advised them.
Indicating his dark, striped Sunday suit, he said: "I wasn't always like this. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord."
Above the vestibule the words of the psalmist said it another way:
"I call on the Lord in my distress and he answers me."
The Zimmerman case hit almost all of the sourest notes in American society: race, profiling, self-defense laws and guns. Not surprisingly, opinions were strong, emotions were high.
On Sunday, the White House released a statement from President Barack Obama that said, in part, "The death of TrayvonMartin was a tragedy. Not just for his family, or for any one community, but for America. I know this case has elicited strong passions. And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher. But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken."
Donald Trump, sometime presidential candidate, Palm Beach resident and erstwhile "birther," delivered a relatively measured tweet: "Zimmerman is no angel but the lack of evidence and the concept of self-defense, especially in Florida law, gave the jury little other choice."
Everett Wilkinson, the head of the National Liberty Foundation, formerly the Florida Tea Party, called the verdict fair.
"George Zimmerman should never have been arrested or even tried," Wilkinson said. "The media got a hold of it and the race-baiters like Al Sharpton and portrayed him as this racist monster."
Wilkinson said he still absolutely supports the "stand your ground" law which, while not a direct issue in the Zimmerman case, was considered one of the key factors in it. He added that in the future, it was possible that someone might confront Zimmerman.
"He might be out somewhere, and he has the right to pull a gun and defend himself, but I hope we don't see a repeat."
When Beverly Elliot-Morrison woke up on Sunday morning after spending much of Saturday glued to her computer for news on the jury's deliberations, she had a case of verdict hangover: Yes, it was still true -- Zimmerman was exonerated.
At the family reunion she was attending in Albany, Ga., the Zimmerman trial was on everyone's minds since they arrived on Friday.
"The first thing I thought of was Michael Vick," she said, referring to the pro football player who got a 23-month jail sentence for running a dog-fighting operation.
"A kid is walking down the street and is shot and killed by a person that profiled him, and that person gets nothing. It makes you think that the life of a dog is more important than the life of a little child."
Morrison, who felt so strongly about the case that she led a busload of local residents on a protest in Sanford last year, was consoled by, of all people, her 19-year-old grandson in a Facebook exchange.
"I wrote on Facebook, 'This is unbelievable, I'm in tears, I'm really surprised there is still not justice.' And Nikalas wrote, 'Grandma, it's up to God. Just because you're not behind bars doesn't mean you're free. He's got to face this for the rest of his life.'~HOA~128~128~"
But Nikalas Chappell, at age 19, is the same age that TrayvonMartin would have been . And he doesn't kid himself that just because he's a college student in Philadelphia he doesn't have to stay alert .
"Racial profile is used every second of the day," Chappell said. "That thought is always in my head. You can't be too careful."
University of Miami law professor Mary Anne Franks sees the underlying problem as the stand your ground law, which has been extended to allow more leeway in what is considered self-defense.
"The laws and social norms are very much pushing people to escalate aggression, and there is never a good result from that," Franks said. "It's a terrible situation to find yourself in as a community, with a law that irresponsibly encourages citizens to use weapons."
Franks recalled that Joe Horn was acquitted after shooting two burglars in the back as they were robbing a neighbor's house in Texas, which has a law similar to stand your ground. Like Zimmerman, Horn was told by a 911 operator not to confront the burglars. Horn told the 911 operator that he had the right to shoot them because of the law, which had just been enacted.
"Joe Horn was hailed as a hero," Franks said.
loconnor@pbpost.com Twitter: @lona13
