The first word out of Los Angeles Clippers forward Matt Barnes' mouth: frustration.
That was his immediate reaction to the not guilty verdict for George Zimmerman in the shooting death of Florida teen Trayvon Martin.
"It just shows that youth these days, no matter what your race, you hear day in, day out about people getting gunned down, and now you have to worry about this kind of stuff," Barnes told USA TODAY Sports in a phone interview. "The streets aren't always safe. Whether Zimmerman got beat up or not, the point is, he was supposed to be in the car and let the police handle it. He didn't do that, and a 17-year-old kid is dead because of that."
Barnes also was among several pro athletes who went on Twitter to express their thoughts on the verdict. 
Miami Heat guard Dwyane Wade tweeted, "Wow!!! Stunned!!! Saddened as a father!!! Some1 make sense of this verdict for me right now please!!! Don't worry I'll wait..."
He followed that with, "How do I explain this to my young boys????"
Wade was among members of the Heat who gathered for a group photo wearing hoodies in March 2012, shortly after Martin was killed. Then, Heat star LeBron James tweeted the photo with the words "#WeAreTrayvonMartin #Hoodies #Stereotyped #WeWantJustice".
Former NFL linebacker Scott Fujita said on Twitter: "Who really failed here? The prosecution? The jury? No. The laws in the state of FL failed. Be constructive in response. Focus on change."
Some players did not think justice was served when the verdict was announced Saturday.
"The more things change, the more they stay the same. #RipTrayvonMartin," Clippers guard Jamal Crawford wrote in a tweet.
"America  justice system is a joke," Oklahoma City Thunder center Kendrick Perkins tweeted.
"Watched a lot of the case...(thought) manslaughter was a definite! Thinking about everyone involved especially the Martin family," Golden State Warriors guard Stephen Curry tweeted.
"Not guilty!!! Wow!!!" new Clippers guard-forward Jared Dudley said on Twitter. "Between Casey Anthony and Zimmerman the state of Florida is looking real bad!"
On Instagram, New York Knicks guard J.R. Smith posted a photo of himself with his daughter and wrote, "Hearts an Prayers go out to T.Martin an his PARENTS!! Still wearing my HOOD n bout to take my baby to get an ice tea n skittles!"
Players also tweeted support for Martin's family.
"My Heart goes out to the Martin Family! Keep the Faith! #God is in control, He's the one and only Judge!" Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson tweeted.
Atlanta Falcons receiver Roddy White apologized after this tweet in the immediate aftermath of the verdict: "All them jurors should go home tonight and kill themselves for letting a grown man get away with killing a kid."
White followed: "I understand my tweet last nite was extreme. I never meant for the people to do that. I was shocked and upset about the verdict. I am sorry."
Barnes spoke just before getting on a plane in Boston to head home to Los Angeles. Even after hanging up, he had more to say.
"Don't know where this situation goes from here, but if there is another trial I'd love to team up with athletes who have the same views as I do and help pay for the Martin family to have the absolute best representation possible," Barnes said in a text message.
Contributing: Sam Amick 
