Bears an unwelcome surprise
I live in a gated community in Ormond Beach. I have known about the black bears being seen in this area.
I have stopped leaving my bird feeders out at night, as two of them have been destroyed, along with the shepherd's hooks they were hanging on.
One morning last week, at 9:40 a.m., I watched a bear run into my yard and proceed to destroy the shepherd's hook and pull the feeder to the ground. The bear sat down and made himself at home while I watched from my porch and took pictures. My yard is very small, and on any given day I could have been in my yard working. 
I understand the bears are protected, but I do not understand why they are allowed to roam free in a small community.
It seems to me the residents shouldn't have to worry about a bear walking into the yard during daylight hours. I will not be feeding the birds any longer, much to my dismay. I also hope I don't have to watch a bear in my yard.
NANCY GLYNN
Ormond Beach
Encounters of the rude kind
On June 1, I was driving down Riverside Drive, going south toward Edgewater to pick up prescriptions. The speed limit on that road is 25 mph, and that was my speed. There was a pickup truck behind me following close, with two young men in it. When I slowed down to make a right turn, the driver of the truck quickly went into the left lane. There was another automobile coming north, and he almost ran into it. This could have had disastrous consequences involving three automobiles. To put it mildly, I was very upset.
If the two young men had some kind of emergency and needed me to get out of the way, I would like to apologize if I was driving too slowly. But in return, I would appreciate an apology from them for the middle-finger salute they gave this 72-year-old woman.
I am sure that if their mother or grandmother had been in the car with them, those women would have been appalled by their behavior.
This is not the first time I have seen this happen, and it's always young men who do it. One of these days they're going to use that "salute" to the wrong person andup in the hospital. There is so much hate and nastiness in the world today -- I wish that everyone would wake up in the morning and be thankful to be alive and try to do something nice for somebody, instead of driving around with chips on their shoulders. Life is short. Play nice!
CAROL BLAGDAN
New Smyrna Beach
A discordant melody
I just wanted to share with you and your readers a funny, but true encounter I recently had while waiting in line at a local grocery store.
I was standing next in line to check out, and this poor woman in front of me took out a food stamp card to pay for her items. I only know this because she had asked the cashier which button to push before swiping her food stamp card. I sort of felt sorry for this woman, for being in such dire straits and having to use this welfare card just to make ends meet. Just then, I heard a soft noise being emitted from the purse in her cart. It was a kind of electronic melody, but I couldn't recognize the tune. Regardless, this poor woman reached into her purse and ... pulled out a $700 iPhone.
Well, maybe it's not a funny story -- but it's all too true.
BRIAN MCCARTHY
Palm Coast
Furlough forces hard choices
Are congressmen and senators being furloughed? If not, why not?
Four days without pay each month might not seem like a lot, but for those in the lower pay grades it could mean: Do we sleep (avoid foreclosure) or do we eat (buy groceries)?
Obviously the food stamp program will see a great increase in applicants. Is this what is needed to keep the government running -- so more dollars can go to foreign countries?
I think not.
MARYLOU A. LEHNER
Daytona Beach
Sick of trial coverage
Does anyone share my revulsion at the TV media's exploitation of the George Zimmerman/Trayvon Martin tragedy? Virtually all the major TV channels are broadcasting the trial, to the exclusion of everything else that is going on.
With all due respect and empathy for the Zimmerman and Martin families, there are other matters of concern to the public -- like unemployment, the economy, health care, civil rights, education, etc. Why must the public be invited to share personal details of the participants' lives? And who cares what the hundreds of TV commentators think?it now; enough is enough.
WILLIAM HASSELBUSCH JR.
Palm Coast
Is it a good luck dog tale?
I would like to thank The News-Journal and Julie Murphy for the great article recently on Rusty, the dog from Second Chance Rescue that needs surgery.
It is good to see this coverage of people coming together to make a difference in this dog's life. Hopefully we will see a follow-up story on the success of his surgery.
Good luck, Rusty!
BRIAN BOUTWELL
Daytona Beach
According to Second Chance Rescue's Facebook page, Rusty had his first surgery Tuesday.
