July 15--A jury's decision late Saturday to acquit neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman in the killing of an unarmed black teenager resonated from Florida to Northeastern Pennsylvania.
"I was shocked that he was able to walk free, based on the evidence," Michael Onley, organizer of a rally last year in Wilkes-Barre, said. "I thought he should have at least been charged with manslaughter."
Trayvon Martin's death in Florida in February 2012 sparked outrage. 
Onley decided to hold a rally. He sent out word via social media, and on April 2, 2012, dozens of area residents donned hooded sweatshirts like the 17-year-old Martin and marched from Kirby Park to Public Square to protest his death and the reluctance of the authorities in Florida to charge Zimmerman.
Days later, the Interfaith Resource Center for Peace and Justice held a candlelight vigil in Public Square.
Onley said he believed Zimmerman, who was supposed to be an authority figure in his community, should have been punished for ignoring the rules. He said Zimmerman, who used profiling and made assumptions, is now going to be subject to profiling.
"Now for every day he's out in public, he's going to be looked at the same way. It's kind of ironic, actually," Onley said. "Although he didn't get jail time, he's going to have to live in his skin for the rest of his life."
Onley -- whose own brother Anthony was murdered in South Carolina in January 2012 -- said he doesn't wish Zimmerman any harm. But Zimmerman will always be "looking back over his shoulder," Onley predicted.
"He's in that position where he's going to be looked at and judged for the rest of his life," he said. "He's going to be profiled as a killer."
No arrests have been made in the killing of Anthony Onley.
Arthur Breese, director of Diversity for Geisinger Health Care System, said he is "not at all" surprised by the verdict.
"It's a travesty on both ends," he said.
Just because a jury said Zimmerman was not guilty does not mean he was innocent -- it just means there was "not a preponderance of evidence," Breese said.
Six women -- five reportedly white and one Hispanic -- served on the Zimmerman jury. Breese condemned the lack of diversity, a problem he said also pervades Luzerne County juries.
Breese believed there was a racial element in the case. He said it doesn't matter what we believed Zimmerman was, it's what the police believed he was: "Hispanic" is an ethnicity, not a race. Zimmerman would check "white, Hispanic" on a form, while someone from the Dominican Republic would check "non-white, Hispanic," Breese said.
If it had been a black man who killed a white person, there's no question he would have gone to jail, Breese said.
The case shows that "All life does not have the same value," Breese said. If all you see is negativity, you'll perceive certain people as being less value than others.
In the verdict's aftermath, Breese sees a need for people to talk.
"There has to be some dialogue on this," he said.
eskrapits@citizensvoice.com, 570-821-2072
___ (c)2013 The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at citizensvoice.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
