DJs could face charges
Australian police are evaluating whether charges should be laid against two radio presenters who made a prank call last year to the hospital where the Duchess of Cambridge was being treated for a pregnancy-related illness. NSW police have confirmed they have received the referral from the London Metropolitan Police in relation to the call by 2Day FM DJs Mel Greig and Michael Christian. "A referral was received from the UK metropolitan police service yesterday in relation to this matter," a NSW police spokeswoman said yesterday. "The AFP (Australian Federal Police) will evaluate the referral as per the AFP's usual process to determine if any commonwealth offences are identified. 
Baroccoli
It is the most divisive vegetable in American politics, banished under one former president, wielded as a campaign tool and used in the debate on healthcare reform. Now President Barack Obama has declared broccoli to be his favourite food. The disclosure came in response to a question from a guest at a White House dinner for children who had won a contest promoting healthy recipes. "When I was a kid, my family, when they cooked vegetables they would just boil them, and they'd get all soft and mushy and tasted horrible. Now I actually like vegetables because they're prepared right," the president said.
Too many tacos
Mexico has surpassed the United States in levels of adult obesity, a dubious distinction that experts attribute to Mexicans abandoning their traditional diet for processed snack foods and drinks. Almost one-third of adult Mexicans, 32.8 per cent, are obese compared to 31.8 per cent of Americans, according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation. Both trail Egypt, at 34.6 per cent, Kuwait at 42.8 per cent, and the Micronesian island of Nauru at 71.1 per cent.
Accused silent
Lawyers for George Zimmerman rested their case yesterday without calling the former neighbourhood watch volunteer to testify, setting up the final stages of his murder trial for the shooting of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin in Florida last year. "After consulting with counsel, (I have decided) not to testify, your honour," Zimmerman said to questions from Seminole County Judge Debra Nelson. It was a rare chance to hear Zimmerman speak, as the overweight 29-year-old sat emotionless throughout most of the proceedings, smartly dressed in suits and ties bought for him by a supporter.
Floods spread
Flooding in western China, the worst in 50 years for some areas, has left seven people dead and 48 missing, with more than half a million others forced to evacuate or otherwise affected, the government reported yesterday. Another 1.6 million people have been affected in the north and thousands of homes damaged.
