July 14--NEW HAVEN >> Sensing his parishioners would want to talk about Saturday's "not guilty" verdict in the George Zimmerman case, the Rev. Frederick Streets encouraged them Sunday morning to stand up and share during mass.
"I'm sure a lot of people didn't sleep last night," Streets said. "There is still this perception of black men as threats. It is important to us to pause for a few moments and take an opportunity to share." 
Several parishioners at the Dixwell Avenue Congregational United Church of Christ, where the congregation is predominantly African American, did take that opportunity, taking the microphone to speak their minds.
A jury in Florida on Saturday cleared Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, of all charges in the fatal shooting of teenager TrayvonMartin.
Zimmerman, who is Hispanic, claimed he acted in self-defense. Prosecutors portrayed Zimmerman as a vigilante who assumed Martin, who was young and black, was up to something, and confronted him.
Florida's Stand Your Ground law allows for the use of deadly force if someone believes they are in danger of death or great bodily harm. It allows an individual to stand his or her ground, with no duty to retreat from a confrontation.
Parishioner Jan Simmons said, "Although the verdict is not unexpected, it still deeply saddens me -- justice is not something we experience as a people. There are policies that keep us oppressed, and the struggle continues."
Assistant Police Chief Thaddeus Reddish called what took place in Florida "a disgrace."
"Every police officer is taught not to use deadly force unless it is absolutely necessary," Reddish said.
State Sen. Toni Harp, D-New Haven, a candidate for Mayor in New Haven, called gun violence "a disease that has affected this entire country."
"You can use the political system for change," Harp said.
Audrey Tyson said she is "devastated," and wants to know why this happened.
"I believe in God, but can't understand why this continues to happen to us."
State Rep. Toni Walker, D-New Haven, said people should talk about it.
"This young man's life can't just be lost -- write to newspapers, to Congress, mobilize," she said. "He wore a hoodie and went to a store, and he was targeted and profiled by this vigilante. Vigilantism has to stop."
"Let Florida know we are all watching -- it has to be all of us, not just one voice or two."
Parishioner Rodrick Muhammad said the black community needs to come together.
"I know Trayvon is up in heaven, proud we didn't riot," he said. "Pray harder, study the word of God harder. Let's rise up and become a family again."
Several parishioners shared stories of being racially profiled themselves, such as being pulled over -- and urged each other to speak up when it happens.
Streets told parishioners that he is sure there are many white people who are upset with the verdict also.
"Don't feel you can't do anything -- move to change the Stand Your Ground law," Streets said. "We have to pray and do the right thing."
The Rev. James Newman, who is president of the Greater New Haven Clergy Association and pastor of the New Freedom Missionary Baptist Church in New Haven, said many pastors may have had their sermons planned already, but in light of the verdict, he changed his to address the case Sunday.
"I did a sermon on justice and judgment and how people who do unjust things can always find a way out of feeling guilty," Newman said. "They can always say that what they did was ok. God is the only judge and he wants us to do what is right."
"Everyone I've talked to feels this was unjust," Newman said. "Blacks still feel victimized by racism."
Newman noted there was a prison sentence in the case of an African American Florida woman who fired a warning shot in a domestic incident, without hitting anyone. He noted that Michael Vick also served time for his conviction in a dog-fighting case.
"Yet someone who kills a black kid gets no time," Newman said. "Police told (Zimmerman) not to follow that kid."
Zimmerman had called police to report a suspicious person, and was told that officers were on their way and he shouldn't follow the individual.
"I feel very strongly this was unfair," Newman said. "It is a sad day. Everyone who wears a hoodie on their head isn't a criminal. There is so much stereotyping."
___ (c)2013 the New Haven Register (New Haven, Conn.) Visit the New Haven Register (New Haven, Conn.) at www.nhregister.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
