July 15--New Haven County residents said the lasting effects of the George Zimmernan not guilty verdict is the concern race relations will worsen along with questions about the judicial system. 
Gabriel Roman and his wife, Judy, of Seymour felt "justice wasn't served for Trayvon Martin and his family. "
Judy Roman said she believes this will cause a rift between the different races.
"Not just blacks and whites, but any race," Seymour said.
"Thinking of it as a parent, you would want justice to be served," Gabriel Roman said.
Judy Roman said she followed the case closely.
"I had a feeling he would be found not guilty," she said.
Betty Welch of Milford was surprised the jury reached a not guilty verdict.
"I think he should have been held accountable for something. I'm always disappointed when justice isn't served," Welch said.
Stephanie, of Milford felt the verdict was justified.
"I don't think there was enough evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt. I personally would have been upset if he was found guilty," she said.
Stephanie, who declined to give her last name, said she didn't believe the not guilty verdict would affect her life moving forward.
Siblings Rasheem and Rashida Robinson of East Haven said the verdict forced them to lose more faith in the country's justice system.
"Regardless of race, a crime was committed and he should have went to jail," Rashida Robinson said.
"It just seems like justice wasn't served," Rasheem Robinson added.
Deborah Stewart of New Haven referred to the case as "terrible" and a "travesty."
Stewart talked about a racial experience a family member had in North Carolina.
"She was coming out of the bowling alley with her family and there were people outside calling them the "n-word," people think prejudice doesn't exist anymore but it does," Stewart said.
"This really does affect our everyday lives," Stewart said.
___ (c)2013 the New Haven Register (New Haven, Conn.) Visit the New Haven Register (New Haven, Conn.) at www.nhregister.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
