Staff Writer
doconnor@lnpnews.com
They attended because "it's not about race, it's about unity among all people - and it's about civil rights for everybody," Kimyatta Williams said.
She looked around at the crowd of some 60 people who had gathered with her Sunday evening in downtown Lancaster's Penn Square.
"Who's to say it won't be you, you or you next?" she said, speaking through a bullhorn and pointing to several people. 
"Silence your voice if you accept this - otherwise, rise up and roar like a lion."
Organizers held a "Justice For Trayvon Martin" rally in the Fulton Bank quadrant of the square Sunday evening, less than 24 hours after George Zimmerman's murder trial in Florida ended in his acquittal.
Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer in his Florida hometown, claimed he shot the teen, who was unarmed, in self-defense as the teen walked through Zimmerman's neighborhood. The slaying sparked a national debate about civil rights.
Lancaster's peaceful hour-plus rally was just one of many held across the United States on Sunday in the aftermath of the verdict.
"The fact is, an unarmed young man was shot, and his murderer is walking free," said organizer Nick Martin, 24, of Lancaster.
"We are upset with the verdict; we felt it was an unjust verdict, and we came out to express that."
Several speakers also criticized the acquittal, but they also encouraged listeners to look inside themselves to find ways of ending the prejudice, they said, that ended Martin's life.
One speaker urged listeners to break down walls that too often exist between people of different colors: "Make friends with someone who doesn't look like you. We don't trust each other because we don't know each other!"
The protesters carried signs that read "End Racism, Vigilantism (and) Inequality," "Zimmerman Killed An Unarmed Child" and "No Justice, No Peace."
Sunday's rally was organized through word of mouth, said Nick Martin, who attends Lancaster's Community Mennonite Church.
"Some of us heard about the verdict and immediately thought we needed to have a demonstration showing that we're concerned about it," he said.
Despite the heat and humidity, several at the rally wore hoodies covering the backs of their heads, showing solidarity with Florida youth Martin, who was wearing a hoodie the night he was shot to death in February 2012.
Instead of going on the Internet to simply complain about the verdict, Community Mennonite Church lead pastor Susan Gascho-Cooke said she wanted to attend the rally and speak.
Said the youngest speaker, 11-year-old Alex Armstrong of Lancaster, "It could be me, it could be anyone" in Martin's shoes.
Williams said she would like the U.S. Justice Department to become involved in filing civil rights charges against Zimmerman.
Lancaster city police said Sunday there were no problems stemming from the event.
Several passing motorists honked in support, and some pedestrians going past yelled their encouragement, although one young man yelled an insult at one of the speakers. But the crowd quickly began to cheer the speaker and encourage her to keep talking.
The rally ended with a man on a piano in the square playing the anthem of the civil rights movement, "We Shall Overcome."
Other rallies were held in Boston, Chicago, Detroit, Baltimore, San Francisco and Tallahassee, where demonstrators carried signs that read "Racism is Not Dead" and "Who's Next?"
Civil rights leaders urged calm, but in Oakland, Calif., some angry demonstrators broke windows, burned U.S. flags and started street fires.
Most protests were peaceful, however.
