The acquittal of George Zimmerman in the death of Trayvon Martin was the product of a vigorously contested trial that tested the limits of proving what happened in an unseen encounter between two men only one of whom survived. It demands respect as a fair but terribly unsatisfying verdict.
Based on evidence presented openly to the jury and via television to all of America, the six-member jury could just as reasonably have convicted Zimmerman of manslaughter under the extremely convoluted Florida law that defines when a killing is justifiable or excusable. The panelists made the close and defensible call that Zimmerman's actions were both justifiable and excusable. 
While he bears terrible responsibility for irresponsibly precipitating the fatal incident with Martin, the jury's focus was necessarily limited to what he did and why in their last moments together - not on what led to the fatal shot, not on the initial failure of Sanford authorities to prosecute Zimmerman, and not on the racial passions stirred by the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager who had been falsely profiled as a criminal.
Zimmerman, the only living witness, said that he had fired a single shot into Martin in self-defense. Since there was no question that the two were struggling, his account all but ruled out convicting Zimmerman of second-degree murder, the extremely aggressive charge lodged by Florida prosecutors. The proof fell clearly short of documenting beyond a reasonable doubt that Zimmerman had intentionally slain Martin with "ill will, hatred, spite or an evil intent," as required by the state's penal code.
Still, the jury could easily have interpreted the testimony and forensic evidence to conclude that, although Martin had gotten physical with Zimmerman, he had not done so with the vehemence necessary for Zimmerman to reasonably believe that he had to defend himself with lethal force. After that, Florida specifically outlaws a killing "by accident and misfortune resulting from sudden combat" if the killer uses a gun.
This is not to argue that the jury wrongly stretched to find reasonable doubt in Zimmerman's favor. It is only to say that when the facts were matched against the law in a trial before a judge whose rulings were favorable to prosecutors, this emotionally and racially charged case was decided by the slimmest of edges.
The jury was composed of six women, all of whom were white. Although the panel's racial makeup reflects Seminole County's overwhelmingly white population, the lack of black representation was unfortunate in that it will likely fuel charges that the country's criminal justice system is stacked against equal justice even when an unarmed young black man is gunned down. Such assertions are no more valid under these circumstances than accusations by Zimmerman partisans that the verdict proves that he was railroaded into a murder trial merely to ease racial tensions.
When an armed man kills an unarmed man after behaving recklessly - and evidence can be marshaled pointing to a crime - there's grist for a jury. Here, Zimmerman instigated the confrontation, provoked Martin into responding physically and then killed him, claiming legal justification.
Zimmerman's false assumptions about a black teenager wearing a hoodie at night in his neighborhood sparked the entire tragedy.
It was Zimmerman who profiled Martin as a "punk" rather than see him as what he was - a kid walking home from the store with a soda and a box of Skittles, looking forward to watching the second half of the NBA All-Star Game.
It was Zimmerman who continued to follow Martin even after he was instructed to stand down by a police dispatcher.
It was Zimmerman who chose to carry a gun, which can so readily escalate a misunderstanding into death.
And it is Zimmerman who bears moral guilt for needlessly taking an innocent life.
