THIS WAS the main event playing out now in the courtroom in Sanford, Fla., and live on television, a minute before 10 o'clock. It was playing out fast in the courtroom, just four or five minutes from the time Judge Debra Nelson said, "No outburst on the reading of the verdict" until she told George Zimmerman, "You have no further business in this court."
So what started on a rainy night in February 2012 when Zimmerman, a wannabe cop with a gun, decided that an unarmed 17-year-old kid named TrayvonMartin was a threat because there had been break-ins around Retreat View Circle, decided Martin was some kind of suspect for the crime of walking around black in a hoodie, ended with a "not guilty" verdict on Saturday night. 
The jury of six women did not convict Zimmerman, the shooter, of second-degree murder, and did not convict him of manslaughter. The women went into the jury room to decide Zimmerman's fate on Friday and came out on Saturday night and decided that the state had not made its case against Zimmerman.
Nelson said no outbursts and she asked for the verdict and Zimmerman and his lawyers stood at about a minute before 10 o'clock and heard "Not guilty." And maybe four minutes later, Zimmerman was being told that his bond would be returned to him and his GPS ankle monitor would be cut off him and he would be free to go.
Really, this was about the time it took for Zimmerman to finish his phone call with the Sanford police dispatcher on the night of Feb. 26, 2012, and the time that his encounter with TrayvonMartin began. The dispatcher asked Zimmerman if he was following the kid. Zimmerman said he was. The dispatcher told Zimmerman that he didn't need to do that.
But he wasn't just a neighborhood watch guy on this night, oh, no, George Zimmerman was a real cop, just without training or judgment. And even though TrayvonMartin was doing nothing more suspicious than walking down the street with Skittles and a can of Arizona soft drink, Zimmerman is the one who started the chain of events that ended up with him shooting and killing an unarmed kid.
Zimmerman walks now, leaves court a free man, does that in a state with its stand-your-ground laws where you thought the prosecution was fighting a losing game from the start. It no longer matters that TrayvonMartin, unarmed teenager, was supposed to have the same stand-your-ground rights that Zimmerman did. Only it never mattered once they were on the ground and Zimmerman got his gun out and shot him. If you think justice was really served in that courtroom on this night, you were watching the wrong movie.
"I am disappointed with the verdict," one of the prosecutors, Bernie de la Rionda, says at a media conference when it is over. "But I accept it."
The Martin family, of course, does not have to accept it, can go forward now with a civil suit against George Zimmerman, one at which Zimmerman will be compelled to testify, something he certainly did not do in this trial. It turns out he didn't need to. But at least a civil suit may mean that Zimmerman, shooter, is only in the clear for now.
"I thought he was guilty," Bernie de la Rionda said, and then he was asked if Florida's self-defense laws make his job harder.
"We believe in the right to bear arms and the right to self-defense," de la Rionda said. "We just don't believe in this case it was appropriate."
Because it sure was not. You keep going back to Zimmerman's call to that dispatcher. "He's up to no good," George Zimmerman said, with absolute nothing to back up that claim. "He's on drugs or something," Zimmerman said. About a black kid in a hoodie he had decided was some kind of menace to his neighborhood.
The defense did a good enough job of convincing the six women on the jury that it was Zimmerman who was the real victim on that night, that it was TrayvonMartin's job to walk away or run away, that he had no rights once Zimmerman had him in his sights.
But the threat and the danger on that night was Zimmerman, whether he beat the rap on Saturday night or not. Defense attorney Mark O'Mara made a big show in court, during closing arguments, of letting the jury know how long four minutes was, the time that O'Mara said TrayvonMartin had to walk away.
When prosecutor John Guy rebutted, he said, "Those four minutes were the last minutes of TrayvonMartin's life."
A few minutes that changed everything. A few more minutes to end it Saturday night. George Zimmerman finally gets to do what he should have done in the first place: Walk away.
