OAKLAND -- More than 3,000 miles and 36 hours removed from the verdict that set off weekend protests marred by violence and vandalism, Oakland's battered downtown cleaned up on Monday, with merchants boarding up windows and city workers washing trashed streets and storefronts.
The Florida acquittal of George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer who shot and killed Trayvon Martin, an unarmed African-American teenager, prompted mostly peaceful weekend protests in San Jose, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. 
In Oakland, however -- the city where Oscar Grant was shot and killed by a BART police officer and where the Oakland Police Department is under federal supervision in part over a failure to stop racial profiling -- nightfall led to rowdy, chaotic protests that, in a few instances, turned violent.
A loosely organized protest of about 150 people late Saturday night resulted in widespread vandalism, and a few protesters beat one man in a Broadway doorway near Frank H. Ogawa Plaza until other protesters ended the skirmish. The man was helped to his feet and did not appear seriously injured.
The group shattered numerous storefront windows, spray-painted buildings and a police car, and started several small fires in the streets. No arrests were reported.
Sunday's demonstration began peacefully with a two-hour afternoon march from downtown to West Oakland and back, ending with protesters sitting in the intersection of 14th Street and Broadway.
Hours later, a small group of protesters started heading north on Telegraph Avenue and quickly turned violent, attacking a KTVU photographer and a Bay Area News Group photographer who suffered minor injuries when he was kicked on the ground and his camera was ripped from his shoulder. Police made only one arrest, of someone who refused to disperse and did not have identification.
Businesses along Telegraph Avenue and Broadway took the brunt of the damage, with 61 windows broken or shattered at 14 buildings, according to police.
Interim Police Chief Sean Whent, who surveyed the damage on Monday afternoon, said his department was not aware jurors in the Zimmerman trial were deliberating over the weekend, so it had only eight to 10 officers immediately available on Saturday to police an increasingly unruly crowd of about 150 protesters.
When asked if he was happy about the staffing level, Whent said: "No, not at all."
The interim chief said his department is reviewing surveillance footage in an attempt to make additional arrests.
On Monday, duct tape was holding together windows at Awaken Cafe on Broadway. A flier was taped next to it: "This window will be fixed later today. When will the U.S. justice system?"
On the 1400 block of Broadway, which has been hit hard by vandalism during protests over the years, all six ground floor windows were boarded up at Foot Locker, and a few doors down, four windows were damaged at the Oaklandish store.
The vandalism was a first for Oaklandish, which opened on Broadway in July 2011. The store sells Oakland-themed apparel and donates a portion of its proceeds to local community organizations.
"I don't necessarily think it was targeted but who's to say," said Natalie Nadimi, the company's community engagement manager. "I don't know if there's any rhyme or reason to it."
Oaklandish has no plans to move from the heart of downtown, she said.
"We really represent what Oakland is about and where it's going," said Nadimi. "There's no question we are going to stay here."
About 60 people were inside Dogwood, an Uptown bar, on Saturday night when protesters smashed the front windows using bicycle u-locks, said owner Alexeis Filipello. Employees guarded the front of the store, and were "physically pushing them away," Filipello said.
About 45 minutes later, Oakland police arrived. She said she went out seeking assistance and warned officers about a group of approximately 50 people burning trash cans on the 17th Street side of the bar.
"Basically the police officer said, 'There's nothing I can do and I don't care,'" Filipello said. "It was such a 'not-our-problem.'"
"When is enough, enough?" she asked. "How are we supposed to get help?"
The bar reopened Monday at 4 p.m. As for the protest planned Monday evening in Oakland? "We'll just see what happens," Filipello said.
David DeBolt covers breaking news. Contact him at 510-262-2728. Follow him atTwitter.com/daviddebolt .
