After a year and a half of living as a hermit, George Zimmerman emerged from a Florida courthouse a free man, cleared of all charges in the shooting of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin.
His brother said the former neighbourhood watch volunteer was still processing the reality that he wouldn't serve prison time for the killing, which Mr Zimmerman, 29, has maintained was an act of selfdefence.
A jury found him not guilty of second-degree murder late on Saturday night and declined to convict him on a lesser charge of manslaughter. However, with many critics angry over his acquittal, his freedom will likely be limited. 
"He's going to be looking over his shoulder the rest of his life," Robert Zimmerman Jr said during an interview on CNN. Mr Martin's killing in February 2012 unleashed furious debate across the US over racial profiling, self-defence and equal justice. Protesters across the country lashed out against police in the Orlando suburb of Sanford, outraged that it took 44 days for Mr Zimmerman to be arrested. Many, including Mr Martin's parents, claimed Mr Zimmerman had racially profiled the unarmed black teen. Mr Zimmerman is Hispanic. Six anonymous female jurors - all but one of them white - considered nearly three weeks of often wildly conflicting testimony over who was the aggressor on the rainy night the 17-year-old was shot while walking through the gated townhouse community where he was staying and where Mr Zimmerman lived.
They deliberated more than 15 hours over two days before announcing late on Saturday night that they had reached a verdict. Defence attorney Mark O'Mara said in August 2012 that Mr Zimmerman and his wife, Shellie, had been living "like a hermit" and weren't working because they feared for their safety.
After the verdict, police, officials and civil rights leaders urged peace and told protesters not to resort to violence. While defence attorneys said they were thrilled with the outcome, Mr O'Mara suggested Mr Zimmerman's safety would be an ongoing concern.
"There still is a fringe element that wants revenge," Mr O'Mara said. "They won't listen to a verdict of not guilty." Those watching the case re-acted strongly when the notguilty verdict was announced. Mr Martin's mother and father weren't in the courtroom when the verdict was read; supporters of his family who had gathered outside yelled "No! No!" upon learning of the verdict.
Andrew Perkins, 55, a black resident of Sanford, angrily asked outside the courthouse: "How the hell did they find him not guilty?" "He killed somebody and got away with murder," Mr Perkins shouted, so angry he shook, looking in the direction of the courthouse. "He ain't getting no probation or nothing."
TrayvonMartin's brother, Jahvaris Fulton, said simply on Twitter: "Et tu America?" - a reference to the Latin phrase "Et tu, Brute?" known as an expression of betrayal.
Protesters had taken to the streets in Florida, Atlanta and San Francisco, among other places. The demonstrators seemed to largely heed the advice of officials and others who urged them not to resort to violence.
Martin family attorney Benjamin Crump acknowledged the disappointment of TrayvonMartin's supporters, ranking the teen alongside civil rights heroes Medgar Evers and Emmett Till in the history of the fight for equal justice. However, he said, "for Trayvon to rest in peace, we must all be peaceful".
Mr Martin's family maintained the teen wasn't the aggressor, and prosecutors suggested Mr Martin was scared because he was being followed by a stranger. Defence attorneys, however, claimed Mr Martin knocked Mr Zimmerman down and was slamming the older man's head against the sidewalk when Mr Zimmerman fired his gun.
Prosecutors called Zimmerman a liar and portrayed him as a "wannabe cop" vigilante who had grown frustrated by break-ins in his neighbourhood committed primarily by young black men.
To win a manslaughter conviction, prosecutors had to convince the jury only that Mr Zimmerman killed without lawful justification.
Nichole Mitchell cries after hearing the not-guilty verdict for George Zimmerman, top
