Some TV commentators at George Zimmerman's trial have found the prosecution's case lacking. This case started the minute Zimmerman called 911 and spoke to the dispatcher. When he ignored the dispatcher's advice not to follow TrayvonMartin, he was guilty of precipitating the murder.
That should have been the foundation of the prosecutor's case. At first, when this did not happen, I believed that the law itself prevented the approach. But it is becoming apparent that the law did not. The prosecutor was either inexperienced, negligent or totally incompetent, by not making more of George Zimmerman's conduct prior to the murder.
If he had done what the dispatcher had said, the murder would not have happened. If George Zimmerman is not accountable for his actions, then provoking another into aggressive action so you can "defend yourself" can become premeditated. 
A not guilty verdict can set a dangerous precedent. George Zimmerman may go free because of a lack of insight on the part of the prosecutor. If he does go free, can this verdict be overturned because of improper representation for the victim?
MARILYN GINSBURG
Lake Worth
Zimmerman guilty of something
This is not your typical stance from a black woman, but George Zimmerman will not be convicted of second-degree murder, and at this point I don't think a jury should convict him of second-degree murder. I do, however, believe George Zimmerman profiled TrayvonMartin, and a fight ensued because of it. But is Zimmerman guilty of second-degree murder? Or is he guilty of second-degree racism?
If I were a member of the Zimmerman jury, I'd have reasonable doubt created by this unfortunate chain of events. None of the witnesses saw exactly what happened during the most important time frame: the beginning of the fight and the end.
Who started the fight and was deadly force necessary? Zimmerman may actually be guilty of second-degree murder and have killed Trayvon, but can the prosecution prove that he is? I cannot say for sure if he's guilty of second-degree murder. However, he is guilty of something. It could be he's guilty of a lesser charge.
GIOVANNI NEAL
Palm Beach Gardens
Limit fireworks to Fourth of July
It is a week after the Fourth of July holiday and people are still setting off fireworks. They have these especially loud ones that sound like a cannon going off.
I live in an over-55 community where there are usually a number of sick people. Don't these people have a right to some peace and quiet? One misguided person is allowed to disturb the peace of hundreds.
I propose that a law is passed allowing setting fireworks off on July 4 only, not two days before and a week after. It is called "disturbing the peace." If a person has such patriotic fervor, why not read the Constitution or the Declaration of Independence instead?
BRUCE S. KERN
West Palm Beach
Senior arcades cheap pastime
The authorities have closed "senior arcades" for reasons that are not clear to me. The decision has denied an outlet for many old-timers who could partake of an inexpensive pastime in a relaxing atmosphere. The opportunity to meet other seniors and strike up friendships was also a casualty of this decision.
The arcades provided snacks and other meals in addition to awards of prizes that were redeemable at grocery stores and restaurants. They provided alternatives to costly gaming parlors such as Hard Rock. Closing them ultimately will do more harm than good.
EUNICE PHILLIPS
Boynton Beach
Politicians change when they benefit
Sen. Mark Kirk, R-Ill., was on CBS Sunday morning showing his recovery from a stroke. While he is still somewhat impaired, he has recovered enough to do his job effectively. During the year he was off, he received the finest medical care at no cost and his full salary. He said he would have to "re-examine" Medicaid because the 11 therapy sessions it allows "regular people" would have prevented his recovery.
When asked about extending unemployment compensation to those unable to find work, he said he was still against it. Without the free care that is unavailable to most Americans, this celebrated now-hero would likely be in a vegetative state. It is simply astonishing that when politicians so opposed to anything government does have a personal experience that shows that maybe there is some good in government after all, their views change.
Witness Gov. Chris Christie after Sandy or Sen. Rob Portman's about-face on gay marriage when he learned of his gay son. Surely there is waste and inefficiency in government, but to condemn all that government does until some personal benefit emerges flays open the hypocrisy of the radical right for all the world to see.
RICHARD FRIEDKIN
West Palm Beach
U.S. hardly bastion of democracy
The debate about democracy in Egypt and other Middle Eastern countries is in all the newspapers and on every TV program. However, how democratic is our country? We are not really as democratic as our news outlets try to make us seem and then castigate others for not being inclusive.
Congressional primaries bring out only 20 percent or so of eligible voters of a specific party who elect their candidate. That's no way to get elected officials who represent the majority of the voters.
This lack of democracy gets worse once a person is elected to Congress. In the House, the leader of the majority party can deny the full House from ever voting on an issue by refusing to put it on the House agenda. This is not democracy. It is a dictatorship in the House.
The Senate's filibuster rule, which allows just the threat of a filibuster by one member to require 60 votes to get an actual vote on the bill, is another thwarting of democracy. A change of rules in both houses of Congress is needed to make this country approach a real democracy.
ROBERT JACOBS
Riviera Beach
Palm Beachers now keepers of past
When one thinks of Palm Beach, one might think of "snooty" folks with lots and lots of money. Of course, they are not all snooty.
Now, thanks to The Post's article "Ancient burial sites prove costly for Palm Beachers," we know that underneath those mansions with their fancy swimming pools, tennis courts and beautiful landscaping lies a "wealth" of knowledge about the island and surrounding areas before history was recorded.
Even ordinary people can get excited about the archaeological findings such as artifacts, burial sites and human remains of people who lived thousands of years before the Flaglers, Mizners and Kennedys. But not all of the island residents are in favor of the town ordinance to monitor "diggings" on properties where maps show archaeological sites.
Town Council President David Rosow voted no "just for spite." He vehemently objects to the residents having to pay so much of their own money to allow excavations on their properties.
The Palm Beachers now find themselves the caretakers of ancient villages, and it is their responsibility to share the findings with the rest of us. Palm Beach could become a shining spot in Floridan history.
COLLEEN WIGGINS
The Acreage
Wealthy show they're out of touch
I find it very hard to dredge up any sympathy for Palm Beach homeowner David Rosow, whose property worth totals millions of dollars ("Ancient burial sites prove costly for Palm Beachers").
I'd be one of the first people to say our age of political correctness has gone overboard, but for Mr. Rosow to describe a bone or arrowhead as "some such nonsense" truly shifts the pendulum the other way. What a horrible insult to Native American culture!
Mr. Rosow goes on to say that former inhabitants should have taken better care of the property if it has meaning to them. How could they have? What power did they have over disease and attack from invading Europeans? It's another example of the wealthy being completely out of touch with anything besides their own comfort and bank accounts.
GILLIAN CIERI
West Palm Beach
Editor's note: This week the Town Council voted 3-2 to reconsider the archaeological ordinance as unnecessary duplication of state law.
