July 14--Two Fayetteville community watch coordinators said Saturday they agree with the not guilty verdict in the George Zimmerman trial. But two civic leaders disagree with the outcome of the racially charged case. 
The community watch coordinators said Zimmerman, 29, acted in self-defense when he fatally shot 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in a gated community in Sanford, Fla., last year.
James Popp, 47, who coordinates the Kornbow neighborhood watch, said he was not surprised by the verdict after watching the trial last week.
"I really didn't know how the prosecutors could have thought they were going to win this," Popp said. "Most of the prosecutor's witnesses made the defense's case."
Kornbow is next to Bonnie Doone, off Bragg Boulevard.
Gena Johnson, 61, who leads the community watch in the B Street area, said the verdict seems fair. The neighborhood off Person Street is plagued by drug dealing and prostitution in broad daylight.
"I hate to see anybody killed," she said. "But from what I can remember, Zimmerman had injuries to his head ..."
Two black civic leaders, however, criticized the verdict, saying Zimmerman should have been held liable for the teenager's death.
Jimmy Buxton, the 66-year-old president of the Fayetteville branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said he thought Zimmerman should have been found guilty of the lesser manslaughter charge. Buxton was critical of the prosecution for not presenting a more convincing case to the six-member jury.
"Anytime a young man is walking home, innocent, and gunned down, just by walking home, and (Zimmerman) just gets off scot free, that is something he will have to answer to one day," Buxton said.
Prosecutors claimed Zimmerman, who is Hispanic, was profiling Martin, who was black.
Troy Williams, a talk show host on WIDU-1600 AM radio, was disappointed by the verdict. The case received plenty of air time on the gospel station, which attracts a mostly black audience.
"Even in the 21st century, justice continues to be an elusive commodity for African-Americans," said Williams, a 57-year-old former sheriff's deputy. "Accountability is the issue, and in this case, the criminal justice system has again failed an important segment of American society."
Staff writer Andrew Barksdale can be reached at barksdalea@fayobserver.com or 486-3565.
___ (c)2013 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
