In a Garfield church Sunday, a deacon wept while praying for the  father of TrayvonMartin, saying the slain teenager could have been  one of his three sons.   
    An Englewood pastor said he spoke to parents of black teens about  how the world views their children, and how easily their lives can  be cut short. He said the acquittal of George Zimmerman in Martin's  killing proved that the nation needs to have an "honest talk" about  race.   
  And following a service at a Paterson church, parishioners said  they were concerned about the safety of their young male relatives  and voiced disappointment with the verdict. "The prosecution did  not prove the case," one parishioner said.   
    The day after a jury in Sanford, Fla., rendered a not-guilty  verdict in the trial of Zimmerman, a 29-year-old neighborhood watch  volunteer who fatally shot the unarmed 17-year-old after a physical  confrontation, there was no shortage of opinions in North Jersey  about the racially charged case.    
    Some took their views to the street. A protest at Paterson City  Hall on Sunday attracted more than 150 people, who were urged to  rally through social media. City Councilman Ken McDaniel, one of  several speakers, urged residents to come together and "stop the  senseless killings of one another on our city streets."   
    While some residents agreed the verdict was fair, others said it  revealed the disparity in the criminal justice system and ongoing  problems with race relations in America.   
    "There are two different sets of rules in the judicial system for  blacks and whites," said Joe White, a 64-year-old Passaic resident  who grew up in Alabama. "It's evident. Go to court. Go sit down  sometime. Go to a white trial and go to a black trial and tell me  what you see. The difference is the way we are judged by the  system, period."   
    Pastors at traditionally black churches echoed those sentiments  as  they urged their parishioners to depend on their faith in God to  help them cope. The Rev. Calvin McKinney of Calvary Baptist Church  in Garfield said the verdict laid bare a reality that blacks in  America know too well.   
    "We've never really been treated as full participants in the dreams  of this nation. .... We are still facing harsh and real issues that  relate simply because of the fact of the color of our skin and we  are not welcomed as full participants in the process," he said in  an interview before Sunday services. "It's not a shock anymore. ...  It's utter disappointment at the way the system is unfolding  itself."   
    McKinney drew parallels between the TrayvonMartin case and the  December 2011 shooting of black Garfield resident Malik Williams,  19, who was killed by police after fleeing the police station as he  was being processed on an aggravated assault warrant. A grand jury  chose not to indict the two officers who fired the shots. The  mothers of both Martin and Williams  met briefly last year in  Harlem.   
    "It's the life of an inner-city youth," McKinney said, "not valued  whatsoever by the majority of the populace and just another  statistic. Malik is a statistic. Trayvon is a statistic. That's  all."   
    However, McKinney, in his sermon, urged parishioners to hold strong  to their faith. He told them of a Twitter message sent by Trayvon  Martin's mother in which she expressed love for her son and  gratitude for the public's support, and maintained that her faith  has helped her through the ordeal.   
    At the service, Deacon Clayton Barker, who has three sons in their  20s, teared up during opening prayers.   
    "As a father of three," he said, pausing, "father God, of three  boys, that could have been our son."   
    At Canaan Baptist Church in Paterson, parishioner Denise Hinson  said it's time that the black community -- especially youth -- take  action against racial injustice, not just complain.   
    "I actually felt the injustice; it angers me," she said. "Let's not  talk to ourselves. Let's talk to someone where it's going to  matter."   
    The NAACP put up an online petition Sunday calling for the federal  government to file civil rights charges against Zimmerman. As of  late Sunday afternoon, the petition had about 500,000 names, said  Anthony Cureton, the NAACP's Bergen County president.   
    In light of the acquittal, the NAACP also pledged to fight for  removal of "stand-your-ground" laws in every state and to seek the  outlawing of racial profiling, whether from law enforcement or  armed citizens, Cureton said.   
    "Everyone realized that we must mobilize and address these issues,"  he added.   
    Cureton, an Englewood resident who was in Orlando, Fla., Sunday  attending the group's national convention, said his fellow  delegates were emotional about the verdict handed down Saturday  evening.   
    "What really hit home was when we looked around the room, pretty  much every parent in the room, you could see their eyes watering,"  he said. "The president [Benjamin Jealous] himself, he broke down  and cried, because he just had a newborn son. Just the thought of  walking the street, thinking you're walking innocently and you have  an encounter such as this, and you have to worry about surviving."   
    The Rev. Vernon Walton, pastor of Mount Calvary Baptist Church in  Englewood, said he spoke to parents of black teens while at a New  York City church on Sunday.   
    "You can literally be doing what you're supposed to be doing ...  and someone can take your life," he said. "And a jury said that's  OK."   
    He said the verdict proves that the country needs to have an  "honest talk" about race and stereotypes. "No one can say it's not  about race."   
    Walton, a former Bergen County freeholder, said he has seen whites  "panic," especially when he's casually dressed. He has seen women  clutch their purses, people lock their car doors and others quickly  close elevator doors as he approached them. "It's very, very real."  he said.   
    Others said the Zimmerman verdict has less to do with race and more  with the law.   
    Miles Feinstein, a prominent Passaic County defense attorney, said  any jury, including one in New Jersey, would have acquitted  Zimmerman based on the evidence. Feinstein said the sequestered  Florida jurors could only consider what was presented to them, and  had to believe beyond a reasonable doubt that the evidence proved  guilt.   
    "I think this was a jury who followed the law," he said. "This  doesn't mean Zimmerman was innocent. It only means that state did  not meet its burden of proof."   
    However, Feinstein said there would have been a greater chance of a  hung jury if the case had been tried in New Jersey because there  are 12 jurors in criminal cases here, not six, as in Florida.   
    He added that a New Jersey jury might have convicted Zimmerman of  manslaughter because of the state's "retreat doctrine" that  prohibits deadly force during confrontations if a safe escape is an  option. New Jersey's law stands in stark contract with Florida's  "stand-your-ground" law, in which people can use deadly force if  they feel their lives are in danger, even when it's possible to  retreat.   
    But even the manslaughter charge would have been a challenge for  prosecutors in New Jersey, Hackensack defense attorney Brian Neary  said. Prosecutors would have had to prove that Zimmerman could have  escaped during his altercation with Martin, he said, adding: "It's  an important legal distinction."   
    'Happens all the time'   
    Several shoppers at Willowbrook Mall in Wayne said that while the  shooting was tragic, the verdict was fair.   
    "It's hard to assess a person's vulnerability unless you're in that  situation," said Carmine Pellechio, a retired North Bergen police  sergeant. "It's a tragedy, no doubt about it. It's a tragedy for  his family and it certainly was a trying time for Mr. Zimmerman's  family, I'm sure."   
    Jose Ramos, a 57-year-old father from Paterson, said he followed  the trial closely and that prosecutors failed to prove their case.   
    "A lot of people are making it as a racial thing," he said. "I  don't know if the weapon he chose was the right one, but when you  fear for your life ... you have to do something."   
    An elderly West Orange woman, who declined to give her name, also  said that the jury was right to acquit.   
    "A lot of people said [Zimmerman] shouldn't have been carrying a  gun," she said. "But suppose he was attacked? He did get head  wounds. I don't know if he was right or he was wrong. But maybe  because the president put his nose into it, and maybe because they  had [the Rev. Al] Sharpton on this, maybe they should have left  things alone."   
    Brianna Bravo, 20, said she was glued to the case the past few  weeks and felt the prosecution didn't prove the case.   
    "This case is high profile, but this happens all the time," she  said, adding that the shooting, if anything, shows that people must  think about how they respond to strangers.   
    "You don't know other people's state of mind," she said. "Sometimes  you have to think for other people. It sucks, but that's how it  is."   
    Staff Writer Jim Norman contributed to this article.
