Mob Rule: It's come out in the George Zimmerman murder trial that the state of Florida withheld key exculpatory evidence in its arrest affidavit and charged Zimmerman under false pretenses.
Forty-four days after local police released neighborhood-watch captain Zimmerman from custody, ruling he fatally shot 17-year-old TrayvonMartin in self defense, a special state task force set up under pressure from the Obama administration decided it was murder -- with no grand jury input. Among evidence to support the charge, the affidavit noted Martin's mother listened to a recorded 911 call and "identified the voice crying for help as TrayvonMartin's."
Left out of that April 11, 2012, document was the fact that Martin's father also heard the same tape and concluded unambiguously -- according to the testimony of two detectives -- that it was not his son screaming. 
Several other witnesses have identified the voice as Zimmerman's, which makes sense since eyewitnesses saw the 6-foot-3 Martin straddling him and pounding his face and head on the sidewalk.
More, the affidavit omitted medical evidence of injuries to Zimmerman's face and back of his head, as well as forensic evidence of grass stains on his back.
The task force, led by state attorney Angela Corey, claimed Zimmerman "profiled" Martin, who was black.
But it conveniently failed to mention a toxicology report finding traces of marijuana in Martin's blood and urine -- which would have corroborated Zimmerman's remark to a 911 dispatcher that Martin acted like he was "on drugs." Police had trained Zimmerman to spot non-residents acting suspiciously in his townhouse complex, which had been the target of a rash of break-ins.
The lead detective in the case, Chris Serino, said he felt pressure to charge Zimmerman with murder, even though he said there was no evidence to support it.
From where did such pressure come? All the way from Washington. Consider this timeline:
Feb. 26, 2012: Zimmerman shoots Martin, claiming self-defense; later released after police questioning.
March 12: Sanford, Fla., police chief insists there's not enough evidence to charge Zimmerman, but turns investigation over to the state attorney's office for review after protests from civil-rights groups.
March 20: Attorney General Holder launches investigation of police handling of case. U.S. prosecutors meet with Martin's parents and the Rev. Al Sharpton.
March 22: Al Sharpton holds rally, yelling: "We came for permanent justice. Arrest Zimmerman now!"
March 22: Florida Gov. Rick Scott puts Corey on case; Corey decides not to let grand jury review evidence.
March 23: In White House press conference, President Obama expresses sympathy for Martin parents: "If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon." He adds, "It's absolutely imperative we investigate every aspect of this."
March 24: New Black Panthers offer $10,000 bounty for "capture" of Zimmerman, threaten his family.
April 2: Holder meets Congressional Black Caucus, Sharpton and other black ministers in White House, pledges "swift action" in the Zimmerman case.
April 11: Holder speaks alongside Sharpton at his National Action Network convention in New York, where he threatens to charge authorities in Florida with "civil rights crime." Zimmerman is taken into custody.
It's now clear that the decision to arrest Zimmerman and put him on trial -- which again, came 44 days after Zimmerman was questioned and released -- was, unconscionably, a political response to pressure from a race-obsessed president and his attorney general and the racial arsonists like Sharpton with whom they run.
This was rank corruption of our justice system to engineer a politically correct verdict, and it's a frighteningly bad omen for the rule of law in this country.
If this president truly respects the law, he will reinject himself into this case -- only, this time by asking everyone to respect the actual facts and evidence in the case and let them prevail over emotional assumptions, in order to defuse any violence from occurring as the case against Zimmerman further disintegrates.
This is what a responsible president would do.
But we're not holding our breath he'll do the right thing. Still, one thing is for sure: Any blood from planned race rioting will be on his hands.
