An expert on gunshot wounds hired by the defence in an explosive American case has told a court a neighbourhood watch volunteer"s account of how he fatally shot an unarmed black teen is consistent with the forensic evidence.
Dr Vincent Di Maio said the bullet"s trajectory and gunpowder on Trayvon Martin"s body support George Zimmerman"s version that Martin was on top of him when Zimmerman fired his gun into Martin"s chest. The gun"s muzzle was against Martin"s clothing and between 5cm and 10cm from Martin"s skin. 
"This is consistent with Mr Zimmerman"s account that Mr Martin was over him, leaning forward at the time he was shot," said Di Maio, the former chief medical examiner in San Antonio.
The pathologist also said it was likely Martin was conscious for 10 to 15 seconds after the shooting as a reserve supply of oxygen ran out of his body, and during that time it was possible for him to have moved his arms. Zimmerman"s account that he had placed Martin"s arms out to his sides after the shooting contradicts a photo taken after the shooting that shows Martin"s arms under his body. Defence lawyers contend Martin moved his arms. Di Maio said cuts on the back of Zimmerman"s head were consistent with his head striking a concrete pavement. Di Maio identified six separate impacts to Zimmerman"s face and head. He said a nose injury could have come from being punched.
He also said if clothes taken into evidence are wet and put in plastic bags, not paper bags, it can ruin the samples since "bacteria multiplies and you get mould and it stinks to high heaven".
Defence lawyers believe DNA evidence found on Martin"s hooded sweatshirt and undershirt was degraded since the clothing wasn"t packaged properly.
Judge Debra Nelson postponed her decision on prosecutors" request to bar the defence from showing animation depicting the fight between the pair.
Prosecutors object to the animation, saying it isn"t an accurate depiction.
To recreate the fight, Daniel Schumaker said, he went to the crime scene and had employees in motion-capture suits re-enact what happened based on coroner photographs, police reports, the coroner"s report, witness depositions and photos taken by responding police officers. The fight happened on a dark, rainy night in February last year and no eyewitnesses saw the entire fight. Several people saw and heard parts of the struggle that left Martin dead with a bullet in his heart.
Testimony in previous days has focused on a police call that captures screams from the struggle.
Convincing the jury of who was screaming for help has become the main aim of prosecutors and defence lawyers because it would help jurors evaluate Zimmerman"s self-defence claim. Relatives of both protagonists have offered conflicting opinions on who is screaming.
Zimmerman"s mother and uncle said last week it was Zimmerman screaming, while Martin"s mother and brother also took the witness stand last Friday to say the voice belongs to Martin. Martin"s father this week testified he initially couldn"t tell if the screams came from his son, but later decided they did. Zimmerman said during a police interview the screams didn"t sound like him, but he and his family later said the screams were his.
Zimmerman has denied second-degree murder and says he shot Martin in self-defence during a scuffle in the townhouse complex where he lived. Martin was visiting his father and his father"s fiancee.
- AP
