There are some things that are simple but are projected as complex. George Zimmerman should not have been acquitted. He chose to ignore the advice from the police. He never once denied that he, volunteer neighborhood watchman, spoke to law enforcement and disregarded their directive.
He chose to get out of the car. From there, all hell broke loose. It would not have if he had stayed inside his vehicle. Zimmerman made a hasty choice, and TrayvonMartin paid for it with his life. 
But every moment before the conviction and every moment since, we have heard the ideologues, and we continue to hear them, perhaps even louder today.
The Zimmerman trial was made into an automatic money pump because the right and the left choose to make decals to carry into battle. Whether lay citizens or paid pundits, none can resist attention.
And so, these shallow attention-seekers have delivered sweeping and definitive conclusions about what the Zimmerman case says about blacks, whites, violence and justice in America today.
Some would have us believe that Zimmerman is a klansman or something of the sort, a classical American racist like those who killed Emmett Till and bragged about it after being acquitted in Mississippi in 1956.
Others - like Mr. Shill, Sean Hannity - make Zimmerman look like the victim, making it seem that Trayvon gave him reasons to feel threatened. Pity the fool. Cut through the clutter and see the facts. A teen is dead because Zimmerman did not follow the orders of the local police to remain in his vehicle and wait for the authorities to arrive. He does not deny that he pursued Trayvon. He does not deny the boy died by his hand.
That is the whole case. Nothing that happened afterward makes it any clearer why Zimmerman felt it necessary to track Trayvon, who he had decided was a threatening troublemaker. How?
But to say what I just said is not to validate every preconceived stereotype about supposed race-based injustice in America.
The fact is, professional complainers about injustice to so-called minorities are often fundamentally irresponsible. For years, they have ignored the harsh and unshakable reality that the overwhelming majority of black or brown homicides are homegrown. They are committed by other members of the same ethnic groups, not police, not racists or Nazis or white supremacists.
We must see the truth clearly - even as we unflinchingly see real racism, when it rears its head.
Such as: The so-called "Southern Avenger," a former radio shock jock who is a longtime aide on Sen. Rand Paul's staff, wore a ski mask emblazoned with the Stars and Bars of the Confederate Flag. He praised John Wilkes Booth. He sent out many pieces of bigoted prose. He described the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday as "Happy N----r Day." This is actual bigotry, too strong for even Hannity to justify.
Steve Schmidt, one of the Republican conservatives who lives in the modern age, like the gang of three - Joe Scarborough, David Frum and Peggy Noonan - feels the GOP has to detoxify itself from such people. And he is right. All of these kinds of professional race-baiting troublemakers come out of the walls whenever a teenager like TrayvonMartin is killed by someone called white. The corpses make a delectable money moment.
The left attacks the accused, and the opportunists on the right pretend there are social issues at stake, when there are none.
We will someday think more logically. It is not impossible. When an armed man gets out of a vehicle after being told to stay in it by the police, he makes a profound and fateful error. Whatever happens next is on him, no one else.
That is what the Zimmerman case is about. It is not a grand lesson about racial prejudice in America.
crouch.stanley@gmail.com
