Steelers center Maurkice Pouncey apologized this morning via his Twitter account for wearing a "Free Hernandez" hat at a party over the weekend.
Pouncey was a teammate at the University of Florida with Aaron Hernandez, the former New England Patriots tight end who stands accused of murder in Massachusetts.
"I fully recognize the seriousness of the situation involving my former teammate," Pouncey wrote. "And I regret that my actions appear to make light of that serious situation. I apologize to anyone who was offended by my actions." 
-- Ray Fittipaldo, The Pittsburgh Press
NFL: CRUZ APOLOGIZES FOR ZIMMERMAN TWEET
The verdict in the George Zimmerman trial elicited a heated response from New York Giants wide receiver Victor Cruz, who hinted that Zimmerman's life may be in danger as a result of his acquittal in the slaying of Trayvon Martin.
Cruz posted on his Twitter account: "Thoroughly confused. Zimmerman doesn't last a year before the hood catches up to him."
Cruz deleted his tweet and then apologized, saying he would never advocate violence.
NCAA BASKETBALL: FORWARD LEAVES WVU
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. -- West Virginia forward Aaric Murray has left the Mountaineers after one season.
Coach Bob Huggins announced Murray's departure today but didn't give a reason. He says it was a mutual agreement that it would be in Murray's best interest to finish his college career elsewhere.
The 6-foot-10 Murray averaged 8.8 points and 5.9 rebounds last season as a junior. He transferred to West Virginia from La Salle and sat out the 2011-12 season.
Murray is the fifth player to leave from last season's team, which went 13-19, the worst record in Huggins' 31 years as a coach.
RUNNING: SPRINTERS' ROOMS RAIDED
ROME -- Italian police have raided the hotel where Jamaican sprinters Asafa Powell and Sherone Simpson are staying after each tested positive for banned stimulants.
Udine police captain Antonio Pisapia said the rooms of the athletes and physical trainer Christopher Xuereb of Canada were searched and drugs were confiscated.
Pisapia says it is unclear whether the drugs are illegal and that the substances are being analyzed.
Powell and Simpson's agent said Sunday that they both tested positive for the stimulant oxilofrine at the Jamaican championships last month.
BOXING: 17 KILLED IN POST-FIGHT RIOT
JAKARTA, Indonesia -- Seventeen people were killed in a stadium stampede after spectators rioted to protest a local boxer's loss in a championship match in eastern Indonesia, officials said today.
Youth and Sports Minister Roy Suryo said the victims -- 11 of them women -- were trampled to death as about 1,500 spectators scrambled out of the overcrowded stadium to escape the riot that broke out just before midnight Sunday. The riot happened after the final of the 128-pound division between Alvius Rumkorem and Yulianus Pigome, who Suryo said are from different tribes.
Points awarded by a panel of judges to Rumkorem triggered protests by Pigome supporters, Suryo said.
The losing boxer's supporters threw chairs at the judges and the winner's supporters responded by throwing bottles and broken chairs, panicking people in the stadium.
GOLF: BRITISH OPEN DRAWS MADE
GULLANE, Scotland -- Tiger Woods is getting a late start to the British Open at Muirfield. Woods plays the opening two rounds with former British Open champion Louis Oosthuizen and former U.S. Open champion Graeme McDowell. They tee off at 2:45 p.m. local time (9:45 a.m. EDT) Thursday, with a 9:44 a.m. (4:44 a.m. EDT) start Friday. It's the first time Woods has been drawn with either of them on a weekday of a major.
Rory McIlroy plays with Scottish Open winner Phil Mickelson, along with Hideki Matsuyama of Japan.
RACING: MOTORCYCLIST DIES IN CRASH
LIMESTONE, Maine -- A motorcycle racer trying to top 300 mph died Sunday after losing control and zooming off a runway at a former air base in northern Maine.
Bill Warner, 44, of Wimauma, Fla., was clocked at 285 mph before he lost control but it was unclear how fast the motorcycle was traveling when it veered off the paved runway and crashed, said Tim Kelly, race director the Loring Timing Association, which hosted "The Maine Event" at Loring Air Force Base.
Warner was conscious and talking after the crash just before 10 a.m., Kelly said, but he died about an hour and 15 minutes later at a hospital in Caribou.
MLB: PHILS' REVERE TO HAVE SURGERy
PHILADELPHIA -- Phillies center fielder Ben Revere will have surgery Tuesday on his broken right foot and is expected to miss six to eight weeks. Revere broke his foot on a foul ball before hitting into a double play to end a 5-4 loss to the Chicago White Sox Saturday.
