DREAMY MATTHEW MORRISON landed in New York from Los Angeles feeling particularly "Glee"-ful.
Back this week for a second round of cabaret shows at swanky 54 Below nightclub, where he performed last month, the 34-year-old actor has savored his break from the Fox TV series.
"It's been an amazing summer of love and music," he told Daily News theater critic Joe Dziemianowicz. "It's been memorable." 
Just over two weeks ago, Elton John and husband David Furnish spilled the beans that their pal Morrison (r.) and his girlfriend, Renee Puente, a singer and songwriter, were getting married. The announcement was made by Sir Elton at his annual White Tie and Tiara Ball in London.
Since then Puente's sapphire engagement sparkler, which has been likened to royal treat Kate Middleton's spectacular blue ring, has become a hot topic of conversation.
Morrison takes it all in stride and doesn't hesitate to discuss his engagement.
"I'm happy to talk about it," said Morrison. "It's exciting. It's also wonderful knowing that you have a life partner to be with."
And to be inspired by.
"I wrote a song for her on my ukulele," Morrison reveals, adding that the title says everything you need to know about it: "I'd Rather Sleep By Myself Than With Anyone But You."
Leave it to reliable Mr. Shue - his character on "Glee" - to make the ukulele sexy, at least a little bit. "It's such a happy instrument," he noted.
Don't be surprised if Broadway vet Morrison pulls out his "uke" for a nontraditional take on "We Kiss in a Shadow" at 54 Below. His show, running Saturday through Wednesday, draws heavily from his album of standards and show tunes, "Where It All Began."
"I like sharing my love of theater," he says.
But don't look for Puente tucked into one of the club's snug banquettes. "She's going to sit this one out," he says. "She's got her own work."
Morrison's service at "Glee" resumes July 22. That's two days after he sings with the Rochester Philharmonic upstate. "We only get 2 months off from 'Glee,' " says Morrison. "I suppose I could have sat on a beach with a mai tai. But I'd rather have a mic in my hand."
IT'S AVRIL FOOL'S DAY FOR BRODY
Celebrities still haven't learned their lesson from Johnny Depp's infamous Winona Forever tattoo - which Depp changed to Wino Forever after their breakup back in 1993. Kim Kardashian's step-brother Brody Jenner recently went public with new girlfriend Bryana Holly, but he has yet to remove his "Avril" tattoo, which the reality star got while engaged to punk princess Avril Lavigne in 2011. The "Sk8er Boy" singer just tied the knot with Nickelback's Chad Kroeger in Cannes.
GET READY FOR GAGA'S ART PROPS IN NOV.
Nothing Lady Gaga does should surprise us anymore, but her latest project sounds pretty impressive. Gaga, aka Stefani Germanotta, announced via Facebook that she'll release her next album, "Artpop," on Nov. 11. Posing topless with minimal makeup and naturally curly hair, Gaga described an unprecedented app that will launch along with the album as a "musical and visual engineering system." Intriguing - and mysterious - as always.
OCTAVIA 'STATION' CLOSE TO HOME
Academy Award winner Octavia Spencer is no stranger to poignant movie roles, but at the MoMA premiere of her new film, "Fruitvale Station," she told Confidenti@l why playing Oscar Grant's mother was a personal struggle. "It's topical, with the Trayvon Martin case happening. And I'm an aunt. I have nephews who would be contemporaries of Oscar." But Spencer isn't serious all the time. When we complimented her sleek bangs, she told us, "Well, I'm going to take 'em off as soon as I get home."
HERE'S A VIRTUAL WORK OF WONDER
Stevie Wonder made a surprise appearance, via Skype, into the Global Citizen Festival at Milk Gallery in New York Thursday night from his studio in Los Angeles. Playing piano, Wonder said: "We must make a difference in the world. Talk is cheap, but actions speak loud. So I'm proud to be a part of the Global Citizen Festival on the 28th of September. I will see you there." Also performing at the fest will be John Mayer, Alicia Keys and Kings of Leon.
FAME CAN HAVE ITS CHEESY SIDE
President Obama hasn't made it onto Mount Rushmore quite yet, but his famous face has made it on to a pizza. Pizza master Domenico Crolla has turned the art of combining mozzarella and marinara sauce into an actual art form with his pizza-dough canvases. At his Glasgow restaurant Bella Napoli, Crolla has also made pizza faces of Kate Middleton, Beyonc, Frank Sinatra and the Mona Pizza, um, Mona Lisa (r.).
HOUGH'S SEACREST REBOUND
Indoor trampolines may be a new celebrity trend. Julianne Hough (above) and her friend Cara Santana were spotted jumping up a storm at the Sky Zone Indoor Trampoline Park in Gardena, Calif., on Thursday. Hough is apparently having more fun than ever after breaking up with Ryan Seacrest, her boyfriend of nearly three years.
IDEAL FOR -SAILOR SUIT
The apple doesn't fall from the perfect-looking tree. Christie Brinkley's gorgeous daughter, Sailor, 15, has come into her own, nabbing a modeling gig in a new back-to-school campaign for Claire's. The cutie sports adorable outfits and school supplies, but her best accessory is her smile, which looks just like mom's. - Sailor also just landed the cover of Bella NYC with her mom and pup, which Christie tweeted.
KOURTNEY'S-A LEG UP
Kourtney Kardashian wears a floral peasant dress and Stuart Weitzman gladiator sandals outside her Malibu mansion with brother-in-law, Lamar Odom.
