DEMONSTRATIONS erupted in three US cities yesterday after the acquittal of George Zimmerman who had been accused of the murder of black teenager Trayvon Martin Officials said protesters broke windows and vandalised cars in Oakland and there were noisy but largely peaceful protests in Los Angeles and San Francisco. 
Yesterday Mr Zimmerman, right, emerged from a Florida courthouse a free man, cleared of all charges in the shooting of 17-year-old Martin.
His brother said the former neighbourhood watch volunteer was still getting to grips with the fact that he wouldn't serve prison time for the killing, which Mr Zimmerman, 29, has maintained was an act of self-defence.
A jury of six anonymous white women - five of them white - found him not guilty of second-degree murder late on Saturday night and declined to convict him on a lesser charge of manslaughter.
However, with many critics angry over his acquittal, his freedom will likely be limited.
"He's going to be looking over his shoulder the rest of his life," his brother Robert Zimmerman Jr said during an interview on CNN.
Mr Martin's killing in February 2012 unleashed furious debate across the US over racial profiling, self-defence and equal justice.
Protesters lashed out against police in the Orlando suburb of Sanford, outraged that it took 44 days for Mr Zimmerman to be arrested. Many, including Mr Martin's parents, said Mr Zimmerman had racially profiled the unarmed black teen. Mr Zimmerman is Hispanic.
The jurors considered nearly three weeks of often wildly conflicting testimony over who was the aggressor on the rainy night the 17-year-old was shot while walking through the gated townhouse community where he was staying and where Mr Zimmerman lived.
They deliberated more than 15 hours over two days before announcing late on Saturday night that they had reached a verdict.
After the verdict, police, officials and civil rights leaders urged peace and told protesters not to resort to violence. Defence attorney Mark O'Mara suggested Mr Zimmerman's safety would be an ongoing concern.
"There still is a fringe element that wants revenge," Mr O'Mara said. "They won't listen to a verdict of not guilty."
Those watching the case reacted strongly when the not-guilty verdict was announced.
Mr Martin's mother and father weren't in the courtroom when the verdict was read; supporters of his family who had gathered outside yelled "No! No!" upon learning of the verdict.
