Away from the courthouse in Florida, an unprecedented operation involving black church and community leaders, federal authorities and Florida police had been under way to defuse fears of unrest at the end of the trial. 
 Some were concerned that an acquittal of Mr Zimmerman could provoke the sort of riots that followed the not guilty verdicts for the Los Angeles police officers captured on video beating up Rodney King in 1991.
 Five decades after Martin Luther King's 'I Have A Dream' speech and in the fifth year of America's first black presidency, the agonised soul-searching over the case is a dramatic illustration of America's tortured relationship with race and history.
 The killing of TrayvonMartin turned into national controversy after Mr Zimmerman was initially released, unarrested and uncharged. Sanford police had accepted his contention that he had shot the teenager in self-defence.
 That decision increased feelings of resentment against a white-led police force from the local black community that had long-standing grievances about law enforcement.
 Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson were among prominent black leaders who descended on Sanford to lead protests, although in the days before the verdict they called for calm.
 Two key developments helped to avert the threat of unrest. Most notably, Mr Zimmerman was put on trial - the primary demand of the "Justice For Trayvon" protests. But the city fathers in Sanford also sacked Bill Lee as police chief for his handling of the case and replaced him with Cecil Smith, a Northerner from Illinois and the first African-American to head law enforcement in the city.
 He took office on April 1 but has proved his new mission is no fool's errand.
 Mr Smith talked about the challenges he faced in an interview at Sanford's new police headquarters, which happens to sit in the middle of the city's historic black neighbourhood of Goldsboro.
 He said that he was under no illusions about how tough it would be to win trust in much of the black population but also to root out officers with racist attitudes in his own force.
 "I have to change mindsets in the community and in this building," he said.
 He has joined officers on foot for "walk-and-talks", knocking on doors to ask residents about their concerns, and held public meetings to discuss race relations and the Zimmerman trial.
 And he has also made clear that if there are white officers with entrenched racist attitudes, he will fire them.
 "It is very sad if it takes a tragedy like the death of Trayvon to change things, but if that happens, if we can build some trust between this department and the community, then some good will have come out of this situation," he said.
 Philip Sherwell
