THE next American presidential election is 1,213 days away, but the prospect of Hillary Clinton standing as a candidate is gathering momentum and threatening to clear the field of Democratic rivals.
She will not declare her intentions for at least another year, but two of the masterminds of the grassroots campaign that twice won Barack Obama the presidency have joined forces with activists to lay the groundwork for a Clinton bid in 2016.
Jeremy Bird and Mitch Stewart helped Obama to defeat Clinton in the 2008 Democratic primaries. Last year Bird was Obama's national field director and Stewart was the director of battleground states. 
They have thrown their company, 270 Strategies, behind the Ready for Hillary political action committee, the clearest indication yet that the Democratic establishment is coalescing around Clinton.
Stewart said their decision had only been taken after consulting the inner circle of Joe Biden, the vice-president, who has considered a 2016 run.
"We have a ton of respect and admiration for the vicepresident and reached out to his office prior to us making this announcement and there are no problems," he said.
In a further signal, Celinda Lake, the pollster in 2008 for Biden, has made a donation to the Ready for Hillary group.
Asked whether Biden would run against the former first lady, Lake said: "No. I just don't think he would choose to do it.
"He would appreciate the momentum behind her candidacy and I think they've always had enormous respect for each other."
In another boost for Clinton, Silda Wall Spitzer, the wife of Eliot Spitzer, the disgraced former New York governor, has also donated money and is expected to play a key role in fundraising.
In an interview at the Ready for Hillary headquarters in a shopping centre just outside the Beltway highway that encircles Washington, Adam Parkhomenko, its executive director, said: "This shows that we have a big tent.
"It's about who can do the best job of getting a structure in place for when Hillary makes a decision about whether to run."
Clinton had promised to take a breather after she stepped down as secretary of state in February. But she has been active on the lucrative speaking circuit, commanding fees of more than $200,000 (130,000) a time, and she is also working on a memoir due out next year.
Last week a library in Little Rock, Arkansas, was named after her. Bill Clinton had been governor of the state for 12 years. Wearing one of her trademark bright purple trouser suits, she read The Very Hungry Caterpillar by Eric Carle to a group of children.
Lake said she thought the historic opportunity to elect the first female president would be central to Clinton's appeal.
"What's interesting this time is the message of the historic nature of this candidacy is coming from the grass roots rather than the top down. Obama had that in young people and people of colour. Now I think women are carrying that message," Lake said. "Women who most want a woman president are babyboomer women. They are a core of support for Hillary and many of them, myself included, think: if not her, who? And if not now, when?" Republicans have already hinted that they will try to portray Clinton, who will be 69 in 2016, as too old and a throwback to the 1990s.
"Don't tell me Democrats are the party of the future when their presidential ticket for 2016 is shaping up to look like a rerun of The Golden Girls," said Senator Mitch McConnell, 71, earlier this year.
Lake said this line of attack would fail: "It's a dead dog loser. For one thing the American electorate is ageing, too. But more to the point, I think people will be looking for more seasoned leadership in 2016.
"They will have an appreciation for her experience. And no one has ever questioned the capacity or the energy of any Clinton."
In the Ready for Hillary headquarters, Avery Jaffe, 20, said he was backing Clinton because she would symbolise a new era. "Electing a black man was a sign of racism being in the past. Electing a woman would show we are a more equitable society," he said.
Fear over Trayvon trial The jury in America's most explosive, racially charged case in decades returned to a Florida courtroom for a second day yesterday to consider whether a neighbourhood watch volunteer is guilty of murdering TrayvonMartin, an unarmed black teenager.
Police and community leaders appealed for calm, fearing violent protests if George Zimmerman, 29, who says he shot Martin in self-defence, is acquitted or found guilty of the lesser charge of manslaughter.
Martin, 17, was walking to a house he was staying at in a gated estate in Sanford, Florida, when he was shot in the heart in February 2012.
The case has prompted comparisons to the 1992 trial of four Los Angeles policemen accused of beating Rodney King, a black building worker.
More than 50 people died in riots triggered by their acquittal.
