This week, instead of attacking a Hispanic senator, Marco Rubio, I will defend a Hispanic citizen, George Zimmerman, on trial for the murder of Trayvon Martin. (Zimmerman would make a better senator.)
It's becoming obvious why no charges were brought against Zimmerman in this case until Al Sharpton got involved. With the prosecution's witnesses making the defense's case, the inquisitors' last stand is to claim that, if the races were reversed, the black guy would have been instantly charged with murder. As explained in The New York Times:
 "Had Mr. Martin shot and killed Mr. Zimmerman under similar circumstances, black leaders say, the case would have barreled down a different path: Mr. Martin would have been quickly arrested by the Sanford Police Department and charged in the killing, without the benefit of the doubt." 
 It is nearly impossible to imagine such a case in a world where half of all murders and most robberies are committed by blacks.
 There were at least eight burglaries in the 14 months before Zimmerman's encounter with Martin. Media accounts admit that "most" of these were committed by black males.
 Just six months before, two men had broken into the home of a neighbor, Olivia Bertalan, while she was alone with her infant son. She had enough time to call 911 before running upstairs and locking herself in a room. The burglars knew she was home, but robbed the place anyway.
 Bertalan had seen the burglars just before they broke in, one at the front door and one at the back. They were young black males who lived in the Retreat by Twin Lakes.
 In another case, a black teenager stole a bicycle off Zimmerman's front porch. It was never recovered.
 Weeks before Zimmerman saw Martin, he saw another young black male peering into the window of a neighbor's house. He called the cops, but by the time they arrived, the suspect was gone.
 A few days later, another house was burglarized. The thieves took jewelry and a laptop. Workers across the street had seen two black teenagers near the house at the time of the robbery. When they spotted one of the teens the next day, they called the police. The cops found the stolen laptop in his backpack.
 The only reason it's hard to imagine the Zimmerman case with the races reversed is that it's hard to imagine a white teenager living in a mixed-race, middle-class community, mugging a black homeowner.
 There is, however, at least one case of a black homeowner fatally shooting a white troublemaker. He was not charged with murder.
 In 2006, John White was asleep at his Long Island home when his teenage son woke him to say there was a mob of white kids shouting epithets in front of the house.
 White grabbed a loaded Beretta and headed out to the end of the driveway to confront the mob. A scuffle ensued, and White shot and killed one of the kids.
 White was charged and convicted of illegal weapons possession and involuntary manslaughter. He was sentenced to 20 months to four years in prison, but after five months was pardoned by Gov. David Paterson.
 John White wasn't knocked to the ground and punched. He wasn't even touched, though he claimed the white teen was lunging at him. Talk about no reason to "follow," there was no reason for him to leave the safety of his locked home. White's son knew the kids. They could have waited for the cops.
 So, yes, this case probably would be very different if Zimmerman and Martin's races were reversed. It is only when the victim is black that we must have a show trial, a million-dollar reward paid to the victim's parents and the threat of riots.
 Ann Coulter is a lawyer, conservative social and political commentator, author and columnist.
