Welcome to Wonkbook, Ezra Klein and Evan Soltas's morning policy news primer. To subscribe by e-mail, click here. Send comments, criticism, or ideas to Wonkbook at Gmail dot com. To read more by Ezra and his team, go to Wonkblog.  
Trials, Andrew Cohen writes, "can never act as moral surrogates to resolve the national debates they trigger." On Saturday night, George Zimmerman was found "not guilty" in the killing of TrayvonMartin. The verdict has spawned a fair amount of outrage. But it's not an outrageous verdict. The outrageous parts came long before the verdict, and could never have been fixed by a trial. "I think the jury basically got it right," wrote Ta-Nehisi Coates. They were charged only with interpreting Florida law and the facts at hand. And "by Florida law, in any violent confrontation ending in a disputed act of lethal self-defense, without eye-witnesses, the advantage goes to the living." Zimmerman's trial bore a weight it could never carry. It was supposed to bring clarity and course to the events of that night, 18 months ago, when Zimmerman and Martin met in the dark and then things happened and then Zimmerman shot Martin and Martin died. But we'll never have real clarity on what happened that night. And there'll never be real closure, either. The legal system promises justice but demands evidence "beyond a reasonable doubt." When the truth of events can never be proven beyond a reasonable doubt, the legal system can't deliver on its promise of justice. Trials, Cohen writes, "are tiny slivers of the truth of the matter, the perspective as narrow as if you were staring at the horizon with blinders on, capable only of seeing what was not intentionally blocked from view." But blinders can bring focus, too. Some of the issues driving the trial can be seen more clearly in its aftermath. Florida's gun laws, for instance, makes cases like this one likely and even inevitable. Would Zimmerman have left his car and followed Martin without the comfort of the cold steel strapped to his body? It's unlikely. But Florida's laws are such that the kind of people who want to get out of their car and tail teenagers who scare them can carry guns when they do it, and Florida's laws are such that if there's then a confrontation and the gun goes off the person holding the gun is very likely to walk free. And then there's the racial reality of the case. "The most damning element here is not that George Zimmerman was found not guilty," writes Jelani Cobb. "It's the bitter knowledge that TrayvonMartin was found guilty." 
"We can understand the verdict to mean validation for the idea that the actions Zimmerman took that night were those of a reasonable man, that the conclusions he drew were sound, and that a black teenager can be considered armed any time he is walking down a paved street," Cobb continues. That might go a bit far. We can also understand the verdict as saying Zimmerman's guilt wasn't proven rather than that his actions were reasonable. But to understand the verdict as simply that is to ignore - or will away - everything around it, and everything before it, and everything that African-American men see in it, and what it says about how they have to act going forward. When Gawker's Cord Jefferson was in college in Virginia, he and his girlfriend were parked in a hotel lot eating sandwiches. The security guard drove up and asked Jefferson's partner to step out of the vehicle. But she wasn't in trouble. She was just being checked up on. "Are you safe right now?" The guard asked. It almost goes without saying that Jefferson is black and his girlfriend was white. "It is a complicated thing to be young, black, and male in America," writes Jefferson. "Not only are you well aware that many people are afraid of you-you can see them clutching their purses or stiffening in their subway seats when you sit across from them-you must also remain conscious of the fact that people expect you to be apologetic for their fear." During the trial, Martin's mother was asked by the defense whether she was avoiding the fact that Martin's actions could've contributed to his death. Perhaps if Martin had acted differently - if he hadn't been scared or been angry, or if he'd turned around and smiled and spoken to Zimmerman in a voice that reminded Zimmerman of kids he knew and liked rather than kids he feared - perhaps then, Martin would be alive today. Perhaps if he'd been quick enough and clearheaded enough to apologize for Zimmerman's fear the night would have all turned out fine. We can see that now, too, and it's an ugly thing to see.
