The search for justice in the shooting death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin began in the winter of 2012 amid accusations that the authorities in Sanford were racially biased and unable to see the truth in a case of likely racial profiling. 
Within weeks the search detoured into a heated national debate over guns and Florida's controversial stand your ground self- defense law.
By the time George Zimmerman, the neighborhood watch volunteer accused of second-degree murder in Martin's death came to trial, the search had become a nationally televised court drama accompanied by endless analysis and commentary.
And now the search, conducted throughout in the glare of the media spotlight, has ended with the two-word judgment of a jury of Zimmerman's peers: not guilty.
Cases ultimately aren't tried in the court of public opinion. A jury's verdict is the definitive finding in our system. In any criminal or civil case, we can argue about the evidence and its implications, but a jury verdict should always command public respect and acceptance.
As the public digests the final outcome of the case, all should heed the words of Monzell Ford, a Daytona Beach pastor who went to Sanford Saturday to await the verdict. "Hate has no place in this right now," Ford said. "Our nation already is too divided."
Some felt a guilty verdict was the only acceptable outcome. After all, a teenager died for reasons that will forever remain clouded. But Martin's race did not affect the resolve of the special prosecutor appointed by Gov. Rick Scott. The case was thoroughly investigated and vigorously prosecuted.
Zimmerman's trial went on for almost three weeks, and jurors heard testimony from 56 witnesses. Despite being sequestered throughout the trial, the jurors didn't rush to judgment: they deliberated for more than 15 hours before reaching a verdict.
In the end, the jury apparently saw what many courtroom observers and legal experts saw -- the overall weakness of the case against George Zimmerman. With the lack of detailed eyewitness testimony concerning the scuffle between Martin and Zimmerman, there was room for reasonable doubt about Zimmerman's guilt. And in our system of justice, the state must prove charges beyond a reasonable doubt.
Those who feel the trial did not produce justice now are pinning their hopes on a U.S. Justice Department investigation of civil rights violations in Martin's death. That may be a fruitless probe, given that the state's prosecutors were unable to find evidence that Zimmerman was motivated by racial animus.
The most important thing now is for all to accept the jury's verdict, even if they do not agree with it. Justice is administered in a courtroom, not on the streets or on TV talk shows. The justice system isn't perfect, but it worked as designed in the trial of George Zimmerman.
