Stoic vigils for TrayvonMartin continued into the night Sunday, as calming words from U.S. President Barack Obama and a pledge from Washington to review the case for possible civil rights violations tempered American anguish over the acquittal of George Zimmerman.
"Not guilty," the words uttered late Saturday by an all-female jury in Florida, left Zimmerman to an uncertain fate - free in the eyes of Florida law, yet a prisoner, likely for life, to global hostility for firing the bullet that killed an unarmed, Skittles-munching black teenager in February 2012. 
Legal teams on both sides anticipate a civil case will follow. But on Sunday, the U.S. Department of Justice added another dimension to the matter, announcing it has revived an investigation into whether Zimmerman's shooting of the 17-year-old was motivated by racial profiling.
"Experienced federal prosecutors will determine whether the evidence reveals a prosecutable violation of any of the limited federal criminal civil rights statutes within our jurisdiction, and whether federal prosecution is appropriate in accordance with the department's policy governing successive federal prosecution following a state trial," the department said.
The bone-dry legal statement belied deep-felt passions unleashed by Saturday's verdict, as marchers gathered for protest vigils in dozens of cities and towns across the country. A sign held high at Malcolm X park in Washington, D.C., was typical of the sombre, frustrated but largely peaceful mood: "The people say guilty."
A broader - and at times, toxic - reaction played out on social media, where the Zimmerman verdict was interpreted like a Rorschach ink-blot test for long-simmering American divisions on questions of race, gun rights, profiling, vigilantism and political ideology.
Obama, thrust once again into the role of comforter-in-chief, released a statement urging "calm reflection" out of respect for the fallen teen and his family.
"We are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken. I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son," said Obama.
"And as we do, we should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to widen the circle of compassion and understanding in our own communities.
"We should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to stem the tide of gun violence that claims too many lives across this country on a daily basis. . . . That's the way to honour TrayvonMartin."
Fears of a violent aftermath were muted by sober legal analysis at almost every stage of the Zimmerman trial, with a preponderance of observers predicting acquittal as the likeliest outcome. The case, many argued, was burdened from the start by prosecutorial overreach, with too little evidence to support a conviction of second-degree murder rather than manslaughter.
Controversial Florida gun laws were also seen as favouring Zimmerman's case for self-defence. Though in the end his legal team largely avoided mention of Stand Your Ground, the Florida law giving a gunman the benefit of the doubt in moments of perceived threat, civil rights leaders seized upon the outcome as cause to repeal the statute.
"We will pursue civil rights charges with the Department of Justice, we will continue to fight for the removal of Stand Your Ground laws in every state and we will not rest until racial profiling in all its forms is outlawed," NAACP president Benjamin Jealous said in a statement.
Others took issue with the rage playing out online, as agitators trolled both sides of the outcome, some calling for Zimmerman's murder, some gloating that the acquittal validates their pro-gun world view.
Conservative commentator Joe Scarborough, writing for Politico, called the social media spectacle a "vivid display" of the "vulgar state of American political culture."
The trial, said Scarborough, widened America's already deep divide, with both sides scurrying to "their shabby political corners" to tweet "hyperbolic political pronouncements on a judicial process that few of them knew anything about."
Scarborough added that while "it is a fool's errand" to second-guess the jury, he, too, retains the right to draw his own personal conclusions: "like my belief that George Zimmerman is a racist idiot who chased an unarmed teenager through a neighbourhood for little reason more than he was a black man wearing a hoodie."
