Saying they want to stop the "epidemic" of violence that is killing young black males, a grass-roots organization founded in Jacksonville issued its "national battle cry" Tuesday to grow Operation Save Our Sons outside the city. 
As George Zimmerman faces trial for the 2012 shooting death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in Sanford, organizers are reaching out nationally to nonprofit organizations, school districts and police departments to help them teach young black men how to respond better when confronted by police or anyone else.
If Martin had been taught to call his father "a few doors away" that night instead of getting into a confrontation with Zimmerman, his death might have been avoided, the Rev. John Guns said.
Guns, the group's founder and St. Paul Missionary Baptist Church pastor, said a goal is to empower 10- to 18-year-olds to make better decisions. That education starts with a Sept. 14 event called "Fathers Calling Fathers" and continues with a "Million Son March" next year in Washington.
It will take work to find volunteers and nonprofit groups to set up programs locally and nationally to help teens change the way they interact with police and others, Guns said. But he said they are confident that their message can spread nationwide so "we will see fewer funerals, less young men going to prison and fathers being raised out of boys."
"We have to change an entire system because it is a psychosis that has invaded us, and at the end of the day there is this assumption that if you see a certain person dressed a certain way, they must be up to no good," Guns said.
Guns is working with Community Connections to set up headquarters at its A.L. Lewis Center at 3655 Ribault Scenic Drive. As group members made their announcement there Tuesday, boys playing in its summer camp came out.
Many kids don't respect police or their parents, so Save Our Sons is needed in communities, said Jaylen Burroughs, 12.
"There's a whole bunch of hoods and stuff on the street, like fights and gang-bangers," said Devars Hall, 13.
Save Our Sons kicked things off May 18 at Ribault High School for hundreds of children, parents and community organizers. Now its organizers filed paperwork to set up chapters in other cities where community leaders have contacted them to do so, Guns said.
A mentoring program called "Difference Makers" will be launched in Duval County's school system to work with at-risk young men. The group will work with community organizations and police to set up programs that help teens develop more respect for officers.
Another focus, "Fathers Calling Fathers," will work with fathers and male authority figures to help them talk with the young men in their lives.
To volunteer for Save Our Sons, call (904) 595-6105 or go to www.facebook.com/SaveOurSonsInc.
Dan Scanlan: (904) 359-4549
