Following the verdict in the George Zimmerman murder trial, Katherine Segura began at 3 a.m. Sunday to organize a Jacksonville rally to protest the acquittal.
She instantly roused 10 people on social media where she posted the plan. By 10 a.m., 300 had signed on to meet at Hemming Plaza. By the time the 5 p.m. downtown rally was less than an hour old, more than 400 people were there. 
"We have people in the state who are not for us," said the 23-year-old Segura, an organizer with Dream Defenders, which she called a youth-led human rights organization for "black and brown youth in Florida."
Her voice broke as she addressed the crowd about what happened to TrayvonMartin, shot by Zimmerman last year in Sanford. She said racial profiling and oppression occur every day. She called for "a new beginning not only for our people but for all Americans who thirst for a different life."
Police did not allow traffic in the block surrounding the plaza and planned to escort marchers to the Duval County Courthouse. Those who attended remained peaceful, and police did not report any incidents.
As well as speaking out against the verdict that found Zimmerman not guilty in Martin's death, an aim of the rally was to begin building a coalition in Jacksonville to oppose profiling and stand-your-ground laws.
Clipboards were circulated to gather names of people willing to join and participate in a demonstration planned for Tuesday in Tallahassee.
"Justice for Trayvon" and "End Racial Oppression" placards dotted the crowd among other signs critical of State Attorney Angela Corey, Jacksonville's top prosecutor who was assigned to the case by Gov. Rick Scott.
At one point, the Rev. R.L. Gundy, state president for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, led the crowd in a refrain calling for her ouster.
"We've got to get rid of ...," he called. "Angela Corey," they responded.
Mischelle Thornhill, 61, went to Sanford Saturday to be there when the verdict was read.
"I don't believe justice was served," said the Jacksonville nurse, who said she has a son who is a prosecutor in another state. She said she believes the federal government will step in to address whether Martin's civil rights were violated.
"I don't think it's over," she said.
Dana Treen: (904) 359-4091
