THE JURY IN the George Zimmerman murder trial, in a move that left defense lawyers unhappy, asked for clarification Saturday on the manslaughter charge against their client.
The note from the jury came out around 6 p.m., after the panel had already deliberated for eight hours in the contentious case where Zimmerman is charged with killing TrayvonMartin.
The panel's request raised speculation that jurors could opt for the lesser count against Zimmerman in the fatal February 2012 fight inside a gated Florida community.
The judge immediately called for a recess after a sidebar with attorneys.
Seminole County Circuit Judge Debra Nelson, in her Friday jury instructions, told the jury to "consider the circumstances surrounding the killing" to find if manslaughter of second-degree murder was the appropriate charge.
The defense had argued against giving the jury an option with their verdict. A conviction on the higher count comes with a possible life sentence, while manslaughter carries a 30-year maximum term.
The jury's long day of deliberations without a verdict inspired optimism among Martin's camp.
The six-woman jury "staying out longer and considering the evidence and testimony is a good thing for us arriving at a just verdict," said Benjamin Crump, attorney for the slain teen's family.
The jurors began deliberations around 9 a.m., took a one-hour break for lunch and continued deliberating into the evening.
Outside the Seminole County Courthouse, about 100 people gathered outside for word of a verdict in the racially charged case.
"We love you, George!" shouted those on the murder defendant's side.
"Justice for Trayvon!" responded those seeking a Zimmerman conviction.
Some supporters of the Martin family wore hoodies in the blistering Florida sun - the same outfit worn by the victim on the night of his death.
Sheriff's deputies intervened to keep the two sides apart after one particularly heated exchange outside the courthouse. The deputies stepped in before any punches were thrown.
Sybrina Fulton, the mother of slain 17-year-old Martin, shared her favorite Bible verse via Twitter on Saturday morning:
"Trust in the LORD with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding; in all your ways submit to him, and he will make your paths straight."
SIDEBAR: THREE KEY issues in the murder case against Zimmerman:
1 Who started the fatal confrontation? The defense claims TrayvonMartin came at the defendant, while the prosecution portrays Zimmerman as the aggressor.-
2 Who was on top in the scuffle before the fatal gunshots were fired? Witnesses gave contradicting accounts. One asserted Martin threw punches while Zimmerman was on the ground, while another said Zimmerman was atop the teen - and stood over the victim after the shots were fired.
3 Whose screaming voice was captured on a 911 call before the shooting? Zimmerman's parents identified the voice as their son. Martin's mother and father said it was their son's.
lmcshane@nydailynews.com
