July 15--When TrayvonMartin was killed communities across the country held vigils.
Yet, I wrote about not bringing my then 7-year-old son to a vigil in Hyannis because I didn't want him to pick up this country's heavy racial baggage.
But now that Martin's killer has been acquitted, with only a few short years before my son becomes a teenager, I can't delay "the talk" much longer. 
The jury could have found George Zimmerman guilty of the lesser charge of manslaughter. But they let him off scot-free. Now, he can have his guns back and resume his they-always-get-away-with-it neighborhood watch.
Meanwhile, the judge told the jury they didn't have to explain their deliberations to anyone.
Really?
When you decide to let an adult coward -- twice the size and almost twice the age of a skinny, unarmed teenager -- go free, after said adult coward kills the teenager for simply looking "suspicious," we need to know: What, in their eyes, did Trayvon do wrong?
Are you telling us that if an overzealous coward sees a young black male, and that coward approaches the young man, asking what he is doing here or there, if that young man doesn't start acting all "no sah, yes sah," he can be justifiably killed?!
I'm sure some know-it-all legal expert can explain how the jury wasn't supposed to consider social ramifications. But, in a country where millions think of Zimmerman as a "hero" precisely because he shot and killed one of "them," the message seems clear: It's open season on young black males and if anyone stops to question a young black man -- cop or citizen -- should he not immediately put on a Stepin Fetchit show, he can be killed, regardless of who initiates the encounter.
My friend Bill Fletcher took the words out of my mouth in sharing with me his sober reaction. "I was prepared, intellectually, for a not-guilty verdict. I was not ready in my gut," he wrote.
"This verdict is a verdict in favor of white fear. This is a verdict that says white people have every right to fear any and every black person and, if the law permits it, to act upon such fear."
The ignorant and those in denial will say Zimmerman was Latino -- as if that somehow prevents him from believing all the black stereotypes beaten into our heads from Al Jolson and "Birth Of A Nation" to the reality police shows of today where the perps are always black.
Yes, I'm going to have "the talk" with my son so I can explain to him that we live in a nation crawling with cowards -- people who will fear for their lives solely on the basis of skin color.
I'll have to tell him about fear-mongers, most of whom don't know any real black people personally other than maybe a co-worker who they'll claim as a "good friend" whenever they need to "prove" they are "color-blind."
I will have to explain, even though everyone loves to talk about individualism, when it comes to black folk, he will first be defined by the worst elements in black America and be made to pay a collective racial tax, regardless of his individual character.
In this country, when a black person commits a crime it's still considered a commentary on race. But when a white person commits a crime, he or she is judged as an individual and NO ONE suggests obvious absurdities about how the actions of that one person somehow says something about the rest of "them."
Maybe I'll show him an email I got just a few weeks ago from a reader who identified himself as white responding to something I wrote about the Voting Rights Act. Instead of talking about voting rights, he went on an incoherent rant about how there are certain urban areas where white people cannot visit because of black "goons." No mention of Klan country or even Sanford, Fla. -- just one long screed about stereotypical "black areas."
Of course, I'll have to emphasize that while the legacy of racial fear and ignorance is still with us, it's more complicated than black and white.
Over the weekend, my son, along with 12 great kids, played their hearts out in a thrilling baseball tournament. On the diamond, color didn't mean a thing.
After the games were over, his coach -- one of the most decent police officers and human beings you'll ever meet -- invited the team and their parents to his house for a pool party. The kids had a blast, a bonding experience that will last a lifetime.
Still, when I tucked Sean Jr. in bed that night, I thought about Trayvon's parents. Did they ever have "the talk" with their son?
Yes, I'm going to have a talk with my son, especially now that the Zimmerman jury, unwittingly perhaps, declared open season on young black males like my son who live in a country where his life may depend on the subjective cowardly fears of gun-toting vigilantes ("You gettin' uppity with me boy?").
I'd rather stick to baseball, science, and spirituality but alas, I'll have to warn him of the dangers he will face. And I will prepare him to stand his ground. I will tell him to judge people as individuals, even though he won't be afforded that same privilege.
Question is: where should we have this conversation -- on a baseball field or at a gun range?
Sean Gonsalves can be reached at sgonsalves@capecodonline.com
___ (c)2013 the Cape Cod Times (Hyannis, Mass.) Visit the Cape Cod Times (Hyannis, Mass.) at www.capecodonline.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
