George Zimmerman was a "wannabe cop" who was tired of crime in his community and decided he was going to "take care of it" when he spotted TrayvonMartin in his neighbourhood on Feb. 26, 2012, prosecutor Bernie de la Rionda told jurors Thursday in his closing argument. 
De la Rionda spoke to jurors for more than two hours, hoping to convince them that Zimmerman committed second-degree murder when he shot and killed Martin, an unarmed black 17-year-old.
The trial resumes Friday morning with the closing argument from the defence. The jury is expected to begin deliberating Friday afternoon.
"Because a man made certain assumptions ... and because his assumptions were wrong, Trayvon Benjamin Martin no longer walks on this earth," de la Rionda began.
He described Martin as an "innocent 17-year-old kid (who) was profiled as a criminal."
"To quote the defendant, and pardon my language, he was one of those 'a------s' that get away," de la Rionda said. "And he wasn't going to get away this time. Hold the defendant responsible for his actions. The law doesn't allow people to take the law into their own hands."
He urged jurors to rely on witness testimony and the facts of the case. In the case of Rachel Jeantel, Martin's friend who was on the phone with him moments before the shooting, he asked the jury not to let her unsophisticated appearance stand in the way of finding her testimony credible.
De la Rionda said the events leading up to the shooting began months earlier, when Zimmerman called police numerous times to report suspicious people in his neighbourhood and decided to start a neighbourhood watch.
"But in this particular case, it led to the death of an innocent 17-year-old boy, because this defendant made the wrong assumption," the prosecutor said. "He profiled him as a criminal ... and that is what led to his death."
Thursday morning, circuit Judge Debra Nelson ruled that the jury would be allowed to consider manslaughter as a lesser offence, in addition to second-degree murder.
Later, the judge ruled that the other lesser charge requested by the state, third-degree felony murder, would not be presented to the jury.
Jurors will have three verdicts to choose from: second-degree murder, manslaughter or not guilty.
