MAKING NEWS
American 100-meter record holder Tyson Gay, who has long promoted himself as a clean athlete, tested positive for a banned substance and will pull out of the world championships next month. He could be suspended from competition for at least six months. "I don't have a sabotage story. I don't have any lies. I don't have anything to say to make this seem like it was a mistake," said Gay, 30, sobbing. "I basically put my trust in someone and I was let down." He did not reveal the substance or who he was talking about. Also, former 100-meter world-record holder Asafa Powell and Jamaican teammate Sherone Simpson tested positive for the banned stimulant oxilofrine. 
* * *
QUESTIONABLE, PART I
Sports world reacts to Zimmerman
Athletes tweeted responses to Saturday's acquittal of George Zimmerman in the killing of TrayvonMartin, some over-the-top angry, some asking for calm:
Bucs DE Da'Quan Bowers: "I hope everyone can see the BIGGER picture of this trial ... his story was heard, his voice was heard RIP Trayvon Benjamin Martin.''
Falcons WR Roddy White: "All them jurors should go home tonight and kill themselves for letting a grown man get away with killing a kid." He later apologized.
Giants WR Victor Cruz: "Zimmerman doesn't last a year before the hood catches up to him." He later apologized.
Heat G Dwyane Wade: "How do I explain this to my young boys????"
Eagles QB Michael Vick: "Please yall don't do anything stupid. Let God be the final judge."
Saints LB Jon Vilma: "I get if you're mad about the verdict. I don't get going out and looting/rioting 5min from where you live."
Former NBA player Derrick Coleman: "I guess they paying us back for O.J."
* * *
QUESTIONABLE, PART II
Pouncey hats: 'Free Hernandez'
Photos of Maurkice and Mike Pouncey began circulating on the Internet on Sunday showing the twins at their birthday celebration in Miami wearing "Free Hernandez'' hats in support of former Gator teammate Aaron Hernandez. Now the centers can expect to hear from their NFL teams, the Steelers and Dolphins, about the hats, Sports Illustrated reported. Hernandez has been charged with first-degree murder.
* * *
NUMBER OF THE DAY
5 Pirates picked for Tuesday's All-Star Game, with the addition Sunday of pitcher Mark Melancon. That's the most for Pittsburgh since 1972 (Roberto Clemente, Willie Stargell, Steve Blass, Al Oliver and Manny Sanguillen). Melancon is among a record 38 first-time All-Stars.
* * *
CORRECTION
The Rays' James Loney was misidentified in a photo in Sunday's paper.
