The religious chairman for the county NAACP chapter urged the public to remain calm Friday as a jury in Florida decided the fate of a man charged in a racially-tinged homicide trial. 
Bishop Larry Lee Thomas, pastor of the Empowering Believers Church in Glen Burnie, said the death of Trayvon Martin and homicide charges against George Zimmerman, have divided the nation.
"We had an opportunity to see or view from both sides - the prosecution and the defense. We now know the decision is in the hands of the jury," Thomas said in a prepared statement.
He said several organizations, the United Christian Clergy Alliance, North County Christian Clergy, Churches United Cluster, Clergy Advisory Board and other Ministries throughout Anne Arundel County and the county NAACP chapter, would work to prevent any outbreaks of violence.
The jury adjourned Friday after hearing dueling portraits of Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch captain: a cop wannabe who took the law into his own hands or a well-meaning volunteer who shot Martin in a Sanford, Fla., neighborhood because he feared for his life.
Thomas' call for quiet mirrored one in Sanford Friday where the case is being heard.
"There is no party in this case who wants to see any violence," Seminole County Sheriff Don Eslinger said. "We have an expectation upon this announcement that our community will continue to act peacefully."
The sequestered jury of six women - all but one of them white - will have to sort through a lot of conflicting testimony from police, neighbors, friends and family members.
Jurors deliberated for three and a half hours when they decided to stop Friday evening. About two hours into their discussions, they asked for a list of the evidence. They were to resume deliberations Saturday morning.
Witnesses gave differing accounts of who was on top during the struggle, and Martin's parents and Zimmerman's parents both claimed that the voice heard screaming for help in the background of a 911 call was their son's.
Zimmerman, 29, is charged with second-degree murder, but the jury will also be allowed to consider manslaughter. Under Florida's laws involving gun crimes, manslaughter could end up carrying a penalty as heavy as the one for second-degree murder: life in prison.
There were big protests in Sanford and other cities across the country last year when authorities waited 44 days before arresting Zimmerman.
About a dozen protesters, most of them from outside central Florida, gathered outside the courthouse as the jury deliberated. Martin supporters outnumbered those for Zimmerman.
"There is a family member in each of our churches so instead of dividing our family we as Pastors must keep them united. Let us have Resiliency and Calm and above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness," Thomas said.
