Zimmerman found not guilty By Lizette Alvarez in Sanford, Florida A FREE MAN: Above, George Zimmerman leaves the court after being acquitted. Below, demonstrators react to the verdict in Los Angeles. Photos: Reuters George Zimmerman, the neighbourhood watch volunteer who fatally shot TrayvonMartin, an unarmed black teenager, igniting a national debate in the US on racial profiling and civil rights, has been found not guilty of second-degree murder. He also was acquitted on the lesser charge of manslaughter.
After hearing three weeks of testimony, the six-woman jury rejected the prosecution's claim that Mr Zimmerman had pursued Martin because he assumed the hoodie-clad teenager was a criminal and instigated the fight that led to his death. 
Mr Zimmerman said he shot Martin on February 26 last year in self- defence after the teenager knocked him to the ground, punched him and slammed his head repeatedly against the footpath.
In finding him not guilty of murder or manslaughter, the jury agreed that Mr Zimmerman could have been justified in shooting Martin because he feared great bodily harm or death.
The jury, which has been sequestered since June 24, deliberated for 16 hours and 20 minutes over two days. The six female jurors entered the quiet, tense courtroom, several looking exhausted, their faces drawn and grim. After the verdict was read, they assented, one by one, and quietly, their agreement with the verdict.
The case began in the small city of Sanford as a routine death investigation but soon evolved into a civil rights cause examining racial profiling and its consequences - an issue barred from the courtroom - setting off a broad discussion of race relations in America. Martin, with his gray hooded sweatshirt and his Skittles - the sweets he was carrying - became its catalyst.
Even President Barack Obama weighed in a month after the shooting, expressing sympathy for Martin's family and urging a thorough investigation.
"If I had a son," Mr Obama said, "he'd look like Trayvon."
When the verdict was read, Mr Zimmerman, 29, smiled slightly. His wife, Shellie, and several of his friends wept, and his parents embraced. The dead youth's parents, Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, who lost their son a few weeks after his 17th birthday, were not present.
After the verdict, Judge Debra Nelson, of Seminole County Court, told Mr Zimmerman, who has been in hiding and wears a bulletproof vest outside, that his bond was revoked and his GPS monitor would be cut off. "You have no further business with the court," she said.
Outside the courthouse, about 100 protesters who had been gathering through the night began pumping their fists in the air, waving placards and chanting: "No justice, no peace!"
Sheriff's deputies lined up inside the courthouse, watching the crowd. But an hour after the verdict, the crowd started to dwindle; fists were no longer aloft and placards had come down.
"George Zimmerman was never guilty of anything except firing the gun in self-defence," one of his lawyers, Mark O'Mara said.
Angela Corey, the state attorney who brought the charges, rebuffed the suggestion that her office overcharged Mr Zimmerman.
"We charged what we had based on the facts of the case," she said.
"We truly believe the mindset of George Zimmerman and the reason he was doing what he did fit the bill for second-degree murder."
The Martin family's lawyer, Benjamin Crump, said he had urged Martin's parents to stay out of the courtroom for the verdict. They were grateful for all the support, he said.
Mr Crump asked family supporters to keep the peace and read a Twitter message from Bernice King, Martin Luther King jnr's daughter.
"Whatever the Zimmerman verdict is," Mr Crump read, "in the words of my father, we must conduct ourselves on the higher plane of dignity and discipline."
Sanford police chief Cecil Smith said the downtown area was open and neighbourhoods were calm.
Mr O'Mara disputed that Mr Zimmerman engaged in racial profiling.
"His history was not as a racist," he said. If Mr Zimmerman was black, he probably would never have been charged, he said. "This became a focus for a civil rights event ... [and] they decided George Zimmerman was to blame and to use this as a civil rights violation."
And while defence lawyers were elated with the verdict, they also expressed anger that Mr Zimmerman spent 16 months filled with fear and trauma when all he was doing was defending himself.
"The prosecution of George Zimmerman was a disgrace," one of Zimmerman's lawyers, Don West said. "I am thrilled that this jury kept this tragedy from become a travesty."
The shooting drew attention to Florida's expansive self-defence laws that allow someone with a reasonable fear of great bodily harm or death to use lethal force, even if retreating from danger is an option.
In court, the gunman is given the benefit of the doubt.
The outcry began after the police initially decided not to arrest Mr Zimmerman as they investigated the shooting. Martin, 17, had no criminal record and was returning to the house where he was staying as a guest after going out to buy snacks.
Six weeks later, Mr Zimmerman was arrested, but only after civil rights leaders championed the case, and demonstrators marched in Sanford, Miami and elsewehre to demand action. New York Times
