 Six anonymous women began deliberating on Friday whether to convict George Zimmerman for the shooting death of unarmed black teenager TrayvonMartin in a case that has captivated and divided the U.S. public for the past 16 months.  
 After presiding over 12 days of testimony and two days of closing arguments, Seminole County Judge Debra Nelson turned the case over to a jury sequestered since the trial began last month. They broke for the day Friday without reaching a verdict. 
 They will try to settle a case that has dominated U.S. media, sparked street demonstrations and raised questions about race and guns in America. 
 Jurors must reach a unanimous verdict on either second-degree murder, manslaughter or acquittal. A deadlocked jury would result in a mistrial, possibly leading to the whole courtroom drama unfolding once again. 
 Mr. Zimmerman, 29, says he shot Mr. Martin in self-defence after he was attacked on the rainy night of Feb. 26, 2012, in the central Florida town of Sanford. Prosecutors contend Mr. Zimmerman was a "wannabe cop" who tracked down the teenager and shot him without justification. Mr. Zimmerman's family appealed for calm, whatever the verdict, saying they had complete trust in the U.S. justice system. 
 "As we await a verdict we will remain hopeful and ask for the public to remain peaceful no matter the outcome," they said in a statement to CNN. "The judicial system has run its course, pray for justice, pray for peace, pray for our country." 
 In closing arguments on Friday, lead defence lawyer Mark O'Mara attempted to shift the blame to Mr. Martin, saying he was the aggressor who attacked Mr. Zimmerman after lying in wait. 
 To convict Mr. Zimmerman of second-degree murder, which could lead to a sentence of life in prison, the jury must find he acted with ill will, spite or hatred. 
 The jury can also opt for manslaughter, which has a lesser burden of culpable negligence. That carries a prison sentence of up to 30 years. 
 Prosecutors had one final rebuttal, when John Guy told the jury: "The defendant didn't shoot TrayvonMartin because he had to. He shot him because he wanted to. That's the bottom line." 
 When police initially declined to arrest Mr. Zimmerman, believing his account of self-defence, it provoked demonstrations, first in Sanford's black neighbourhood of Goldsboro, where people accused Mr. Zimmerman of racial profiling and demanded his arrest. 
 Protests spread to small towns and big cities across the United States, prompting celebrity tweets, cable news shouting matches and scrutiny of Florida's Stand Your Ground self-defence law, which police cited in letting Mr. Zimmerman to go free. 
 The case drew the attention of President Barack Obama, who said: "If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon." 
 In Sanford, officials said on Friday they were prepared for a possible return of the impassioned demonstrations that arose last year, but expected calm. 
 "We will not tolerate anyone who uses the verdict as an excuse to violate the law," Sheriff Donald Eslinger told reporters. 
 Jury deliberations resume again at 9 a.m. Saturday. 
