REGULAR READERS of this column know that Tattle is no fan of the "faux reality" TV empire built on the breasts and buttocks of Kim Kardashian and her whiny, overindulged family. 
But no matter how much attention she craves, no one except her doctors should have access to her medical records. So it's encouraging that hospital-to-the-stars Cedars-Sinai has reportedly fired half-a-dozen employees, according to the Los Angeles Times, for hacking patient records, including those of North's mama. 
The Times reported that four of the canned hospital workers were employees of physicians with staff privileges, one was a hospital medical assistant and one was an unpaid student-research assistant.  
Really? Unpaid researchers have access to medical records? 
Five of the ex-Cedars employees accessed a single patient's record - wonder who - while one viewed 14 records, the Times reported. We sure hope those records weren't observed while the worker was supposed to be working - reminiscent of the SEC workers who watched porn while Wall Street burned. 
Kim K told TMZ.com that she had been contacted by the hospital about the breach (of security, not birth) and she was pleased that the hospital had taken prompt action. 
This is not the first time this has happened at Cedars-Sinai, and the unfortunate fact of the matter is that if you're a celebrity in a hospital, some low-paid worker (with minimal ethics) may see your stay as a potential cash cow and you will get far too much attention. If you're a regular citizen, you won't get any attention. 
  Stars and Trayvon
At her Nashville concert Saturday, Beyonce called for a moment of silence for TrayvonMartin during her show at Bridgestone Arena. Her concert started about 30 minutes after the George Zimmerman not-guilty verdict began to circulate. 
"I'd like to have a moment of silence for Trayvon," Bey said as the stage grew dark with just a few key lights shining. 
Beyonce then sang the chorus of "I Will Always Love You" before transitioning into her hit "Halo." 
On Facebook, Young Jeezy posted a new song, "It's a Cold World (A Tribute to TrayvonMartin)," with a comment: "I am in no way shape, form, or fashion . . . trying to capitalize off of the latest series of events. These are my true feelings and my form of expression about it." 
Russell Simmons, a producer and entrepreneur, posted a blog entry that said that he'd be supporting the TrayvonMartin Foundation in helping to repeal laws like Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law. He signed off, "God bless you little brother. Rest in peace." 
He also called for those upset with the verdict to channel their energy away from violence, telling followers that "we must remain peaceful. No matter what, remain peaceful." 
"If u have any anger this evening," Simmons wrote on Twitter, "put that energy into challenging these horrible laws that allow overly-anxious neighborhood watchmen to carry guns and shoot innocent people." 
  Burgundy Berry
Halle Berry has married for the third time and for the third time she hasn't married Tattle. 
This time, the groom is actor Olivier Martinez, and the pair wed Saturday in a village church in France's Burgundy region. 
The owner of the Chateau de Vallery, where the couple stayed with their 60 guests, said yesterday that the betrothal Saturday ended with a dinner and an unusual fireworks display - of water, fire and snow - in the chateau gardens. A wedding cake followed. 
Patrice Vansteenberghe said that the actress - 46 and pregnant - and her 47-year-old husband "were very beautiful and very happy." 
  TATTBITS
* Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling has been outed as the author of The Cuckoo's Calling under her pseudonym Robert Galbraith. 
"I hoped to keep this secret a little longer because being Robert Galbraith has been such a liberating experience," she said in a statement. "It has been wonderful to publish without hype or expectation, and pure pleasure to get feedback from publishers and readers under a different name." 
The Cuckoo's Calling, a story about a war veteran turned private investigator who is called in to probe the mysterious death of a model, was published to rave reviews in April. 
The Sunday Times claimed it was investigating "how a first-time author with a background in the army and the civilian security industry could write such an assured debut novel" when it connected the dots. The paper said that clues included the fact that Rowling and Galbraith shared the same agent and editor, and that Little, Brown published Rowling's novel for adults, The Casual Vacancy. It also said that the book's style and subject matter resembled Rowling's work. 
Rowling's publicist confirmed the paper's detective work, and the news helped the novel climb straight to the top of Amazon's best-seller list yesterday. 
* 20th Century Fox has formed a new joint venture to turn the studio's library of films into musicals. 
Like "Avatar"? "Die Hard"? "Star Wars"? Or that incredible one-man-and-a-singing-beach-ball musical, "Cast Away"? 
And what rhymes with "Wolverine"? 
Forgotten in this move is that Broadway, before it became overwhelmed by shows based on movies, used to create original musicals. And 20th Century Fox made musicals: "The Sound of Music," "Doctor Dolittle" (Rex Harrison version), "Hello, Dolly!" the Marilyn Monroe/Jane Russell starrer "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes," Ethel Merman in "There's No Business Like Show Business," the great Bob Fosse movie "All That Jazz," and more. 
Some of the Nicholas Brothers' best work in film was done at Fox. 
So, come on, Fox. We don't need "Ice Age: The Musical." Come up with something new. 
- Daily News wire services 
contributed to this report 
Phone: 215-854-5678 
On Twitter: @DNTattle 
