Times-Union readers want to know:
I received an email with a photo of TrayvonMartin that says that "little Trayvon" at the time of his death stood almost 6-foot-2 and weighed 175 muscular pounds. Why did the media continue to show photos of the innocent-looking 12-year-old TrayvonMartin instead of current ones?
A couple of viral emails purport to show photos of TrayvonMartin. PolitiFact.com, Snopes.com and TruthorFiction.com all looked into the images, as did other news organizations, and came to the same conclusion: Not the TrayvonMartin.
One email, headlined "Media Bias," shows a smiling, clean-cut, suit-wearing George Zimmerman - who shot Martin - next to a photo identified as Martin in saggy pants and making obscene gestures with both hands.
That email came from a posting on Twitchy.com, a website started by conservative columnist Michelle Malkin. The photo of Martin, though, was of a totally different TrayvonMartin, or someone who created a Facebook page with that name, according to various fact-finding groups.
Twitchy.com did post a correction, which said, "We made a mistake. The photo on the right is not of the TrayvonMartin who was shot by Zimmerman. We apologize to our readers and the Martin family."
The email also castigated the media for using a "5-year-old" photo of a smiling Martin wearing a red Hollister T-shirt. That photo, according to Martin family attorney Benjamin Crump, was taken in August 2011, seven months before Martin died.
Also posting supposed images of Martin was the website Stormfront, a neo-Nazi forum that describes itself as a "community of racial realists and idealists." Business Insider picked up one of those "gangsta" images, then had to quickly retract and correct it, Columbia Journalism Review reported.
Another viral email that has filled area inboxes over the past year has as its centerpiece a photo identified as Martin. The photo is of a young man with facial hair who is heavily tattooed. The email accuses the media of deceiving the public by using photos of a younger Martin, not detailing alleged disciplinary problems that Martin had in school and wanting to depict him as a "sweet kid":
"They don't show the up-to-date pictures of TrayvonMartin, in the media. Now you know why. Kinda scary, ain't it?"
It is not Martin, but a photo of Jayceon Terrell Taylor, a rapper from California who also goes by "Game" (formerly, "The Game"). Game received Grammy nominations in 2006 for his collaboration with rapper 50 Cent on "Hate It or Love It," PolitiFact.com reported.
The photo of Game was used in a May 6, 2010, story for XXL magazine, The Washington Post reported. Game was 31 years old at the time.
TruthorFiction.com compared the tattoos in the photo with those on Game's album cover "Leftovers," and found them to be the same. The fact-checking organizations wrote that Game was very outspoken about the shooting and was quoted in several articles accompanied by his photo.
It is possible that the originator of the chain email included the wrong photo on purpose, just as it is conceivable that the originator, seeing the photo of Game with an article on Martin, could have - in a quick read - confused one for the other.
Carole Fader: (904) 359-4635
FACT CHECK
Want something checked out? If you see or hear about something that needs a Fact Check, e-mail carole.fader@jacksonville.com
