2012
Feb. 26
George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer in a gated, Sanford, Fla. community, tracks 17-year-old Trayvon Martin, who is visiting his father there, as Martin walks through the neighborhood on the way back from buying candy at a convenience store. Zimmerman calls police to report a suspicious person, then gets out of his vehicle to follow Martin, though the dispatcher tells him "we don't need you to do that." A short time later, a resident calls police to report a fight, followed by a gunshot. Martin has been fatally wounded. Police take Zimmerman into custody but release him later that night. 
Feb. 27
Martin's father, who had filed a missing person report, learns of his son's death. Zimmerman accompanies police to the crime scene and gives his account, saying Martin sucker-punched and then beat him, and that he shot the teen because he believed Martin was reaching for his holstered gun. No charges are filed.
March 8
Martin's parents launch a petition calling for Zimmerman's arrest, garnering hundreds of thousands of signatures.
March 12
Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee says there are no grounds for disputing Zimmerman's account of the case.
March 13
A police detective recommends charging Zimmerman with manslaughter.
March 14
Police turn the case over to the state attorney's office.
March 16
Recordings of 911 calls associated with the case are released.
March 19
The U.S. Justice Department opens an investigation.
March 22
Gov. Rick Scott appoints Jacksonville State Attorney Angela Corey to take over the case. Lee temporarily steps down as police chief and is later fired.
Late March
Members of both Martin and Zimmerman's families speak out publicly, with Martin's relatives claiming he was a victim of racism and Zimmerman's maintaining that he acted in self-defense.
April 11
Zimmerman is charged with second-degree murder and surrenders voluntarily.
April 20
Zimmerman is released on $150,000 bail. Through his lawyer, he enters a not guilty plea May 8.
May 15
A medical report shows Zimmerman suffered a broken nose, two black eyes and a fractured nose.
June 1
The judge revokes Zimmerman's bond over allegations that he and his wife misrepresented their finances. She is later charged with perjury.
July 5
A new $1 million bond is set for Zimmerman, who is released.
Aug. 29
An appeals court grants Zimmerman's request for a new judge after he objects to statements the previous one made about him.
2013
April 30
Zimmerman waives a hearing on whether he should be automatically cleared under Florida's "stand your ground" law, deciding instead to go to trial with a self-defense case.
June 20
A jury is selected.
June 24
The trial begins.
Friday
After three weeks of testimony, the case goes to the jury.
Saturday
Jury of six women finds George Zimmerman not guilty of murder.
