Earlier this month, we celebrated the 150th anniversary of the Battle of Gettysburg. So this seemed like a good time to reread "The Killer Angels," Michael Shaara's novel about the battle. It is historical fiction at its best.
Also, there is this: The book, which won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1975, was turned down by 15 publishers. That's probably because Shaara started trying to sell it in 1971, and publishers figured the public was sick of war. All those years in Vietnam had taken their toll. It's fun to read a great book and realize that publishers turned it down. Sometimes the smart people aren't so smart. That is well worth remembering. 
As if that weren't enough, there is this: After Michael's death, his son, Jeffrey, wrote a prequel and a sequel to his father's book. A father and son trilogy. How cool is that?
But all that aside, the best thing about Civil War books is that we're still fighting it. Philosophically, not much was settled at Gettysburg.
There is a wonderful scene in "The Killer Angels" in which some of the Confederate officers are talking to a British observer about their cause. It is not about slavery, they insist. It is about the tyranny of the federal government.
I hear similar arguments about the tyranny of the federal government all the time, mostly in e-mail form. The arguments are not as well-stated as they are in the book, but truth is, people used to be better at expressing themselves. Maybe that's because they wrote letters instead of tweets. Letters from Civil War soldiers are often amazingly poignant. Even people without much formal education could write.
Except for a deterioration in our writing skills, not much has changed. The same arguments divide us.
Of course, slavery is gone, but race remains a red-hot topic.
All the happy talk a few years ago about finally reaching some kind of "post racial" stage was just that - happy talk. Sure, there is a black president now - half-black, actually - and that speaks to great progress, but look at the local fight about school transfers. I read about it, and I think of the south side of Chicago 50 years ago, but this sort of stuff probably goes back to the days of Reconstruction. From my perspective, it is a story of working-class whites' seeing their carefully constructed lives threatened.
Then there is the Trayvon Martin-George Zimmerman case. I did not follow the case closely, but I know the general outlines of it. I was sure Zimmerman would be convicted of something. After all, Martin was walking down the street breaking no laws and Zimmerman got out of his vehicle with a gun to look for him. What does it matter if Martin hit Zimmerman first? If an armed man gets out of his car and comes looking for you, you are not required to just let him shoot you.
But again, there is a great divide. Unlike the O.J. Simpson case, the divide this time is not strictly along racial lines. A great many whites think like I do, that Zimmerman had to be guilty of something. In this instance, the divide seems to be along ideological lines.
Two countries.
Missouri was, and is, a border state. If put to a vote, we'd go south. Hey, we're thrilled to see the flagship university join the SEC. Of course, we don't hate any of our new rivals the way we hated the Kansas Jayhawks - and that does go back to the Civil War. We're friendly rivals with the schools from the old Confederacy. We're finally where we belong.
In the past, I've written about St. Louis' seceding from Missouri. We'll join Illinois as West East St. Louis. Those columns were written in fun, and I have received good-natured comments from readers in St. Charles. Please go, they say, and if you do secede, make the new boundary the Missouri River.
Sometimes I think - seriously - that the two-country solution would be best. Conservatives and liberals seem so far apart these days. There is little common ground, and virtually nothing can get accomplished in Washington . At any given time, half the country hates the president.
That is no way to live. If we were a married couple, our friends would tell us to get a divorce. You're both miserable, they'd say.
So it is with the country.
I think about it while I read "The Killer Angels." For all practical purposes, it doesn't matter that Pickett was turned back at Cemetery Ridge. He just as well could have taken the hill.
The war goes on. It's red and blue instead of blue and gray, but the fighting still rages.
