Major parties offer an appalling values legacy
It is an expectation that one generation will pass on worthwhile values to the next generation. What values are the major political parties passing on to the next generation? ("Boats, Hopes, Votes", July, 13-14). 
Values such as some people are expendable; some people are just not as important as we are; some people are just ignorant; some people just don't deserve to share our riches; looking after ourselves is the most important thing; concern for the wellbeing of others is of lesser importance; some people are lesser human beings than we are; we can incarcerate them and treat them cruelly; we can deport people and forget them.
These are the values - for which they should be condemned - that underpin the refugee policies of the major political parties, values that they apparently believe are worth passing on to the next generation. Shame!
Terry Burke Cammeray
Tools of the trade
David James tells us that few attempts to destroy the English language have been as successful as the strange utterances of management consultants. ("Don't be fooled by the jargon", July 13-14). David, forget the medication and reading backwards bits. The answer is their ability to mislead and mystify, with a little help from "bullshit baffles brains".
Dean Hartigan Umina
Bound to lose
Medgar Evers, Hattie Carroll and now Trayvon Martin. Where's Bob Dylan when you need a new song from him?
David Hall Pymble
Moral duty still
The American whistleblower Edward Snowden is reported as saying "individual citizens have the duty to violate domestic laws to prevent crimes against peace and humanity from occurring".
This is a timely reminder of a declaration by the postwar Nuremberg tribunal of military judges that there was a moral duty to object to the circumstances that could facilitate a crime.
Len Green Rose Bay
Umpire strikes back
Aleem Dar 1, Australia 0, England 0. Will Dar be given a chance to improve on his score in this Test series?
John Walsh Watsonia (Vic)
Singing the Blues
So much media coverage on State of Origin. What next? State of Origin the Musical?
Carol le Roux Wamberal
