At least George Zimmerman has his life
Still stung by the verdict of not guilty, I am disgusted to read comments in the article in the paper on Sunday.
George Zimmerman, a proven liar, who was 100 pounds heavier than TrayvonMartin that night and now fattened up to look unfit and no threat to a skinny 17-year-old, decided to take a gun, hunt a boy he assumed was no good and then kill him.
If Trayvon had beat the life out of him, he would have deserved it. 
He started it!
Zimmerman and his lawyers went on right-wing radio shows and Zimmerman was asked by one host if he had any regrets. He replied "No" and added: "It was God's will."
Then we read the quote in your story on Sunday where a white brother and sister in their 50s called the case "a tragedy," especially for Zimmerman. "It's a tragedy that he is going to suffer for the rest of his life."
Are you kidding me?
At least he has a life and with the likely NRA speaking tour, endorsements and since it is Florida, his long-awaited job with a police department, he and his lawyers will be just fine.
Travesty of justice doesn't even come close.
-- Bee Simpson, South Pasadena
Headline on Zimmerman verdict was inflammatory
Your July 14 headline "Zimmerman walks" is highly inflammatory, and incites the very thing that communities are attempting to avoid. Local law enforcement is on tactical alert, and praying that people will remain calm during this time. And then along comes your headline to add fuel to the fire. This type of tabloid reporting is designed to sell papers without regard for any possible negative repercussions that may be brought about. Your newspaper would serve the community better by keeping your editorial views out of the front-page headlines.
-- Rob Daltorio, Jr., Monterey Park
First name for Trayvon, last name for Zimmerman
It was a brave jury that came down with the verdict that they did. With the media leaning in favor of Martin, it should have gone in the other direction, but it did not. And this is a terrific surprise for the Martin supporters: they are very unhappy with the verdict, to say the least. And further legal action is implied. Ever since the Martin and Zimmerman became the topic of the media, especially with the radio talk shows, more often than not, when the subjects of this case were mentioned, it was on a first name basis for Trayvor Martin and always on the last name basis for George Zimmerman. This name game certainly favored Martin. Even their physical descriptions, when described, favored Martin: "the thin 17-year-old youth ... against a much older, heavier opponent" is how one newscaster described the fatal confrontation, and was echoed through the airwaves by popular talk show hosts.
The word "opponent" automatically put Zimmerman in the losers' corner. And this is not an isolated case, especially now that Zimmerman is a free person. With such rhetoric in abundance, it is maybe just a matter of time before a movie is made about this famous case.
-- Tony Farinella, El Monte
What if the shooter instead had been black?
In Florida, on the night of July 13, 2013, an unarmed teenager, TrayvonMartin, shot to death in February, 2012, was put on trial while the shooter, George Zimmerman, was set free. Even though the defense team and prosecutors seem to be OK with the not-guilty verdict, both sides constantly stating that "it's not about race," the world watched and made the correct judgment. The questio remains: What if the shooter had been black? -- Sharlene White, Oceanside
