It''s hard not to feel a tingle of anticipation every time Alec Baldwin starts to look mildly cross. In a world of raving, feud-waging celebrities, he is a rock star. He doesn''t simply lose his temper - he blows like Mount Vesuvius crammed with nitroglycerin and left near an open gas pipe.
This was made explosively clear last week as he embarked on a Twitter tirade on a reporter who had written something unflattering about his young wife, Hilaria. 
"You lying little bitch," he tweeted to journalist George Stark. "I am gonna f%#@ you up."
"  As details of his Twitter attack pinged around the world and Baldwin was accused of homophobia, the actor issued a forthright apology (he had tweeted that he would "put his foot up" Stark's "ass" were it not for the fact that the journalist would "dig it too much"). He subsequently shuttered his Twitter account, vowing never to darken the door of social media again.
It''s too early to know if he will keep true to his vow. However, if he does stay off Twitter, the world will have to bid adieu to a special voice. To mark his retirement, here are Baldwin''s finest headlinegobbling instances of blind rage.
ICE ICE BABY Chatting to Jerry Seinfield on his National Public Radio interview show, Baldwin posed an odd question: had Seinfeld ever done anything in his life of which he remained stubbornly proud, no matter how much criticism he received subsequently? The comedian shrugged, so Baldwin pitched in with an anecdote of his own.
On a journey through rush hour Manhattan he had drawn up alongside a taxi containing several teenagers. Recognising him they started to mouth expletives, then sped off. Catching up with the kids several blocks on, Baldwin chucked the iced coffee he was drinking into the back of the cab, drenching his antagonisers.
"I went woosh and I threw it right into the window of the car. It literally hit him in the chest and the liquid went woosh, all over. They had overplayed their hand."
SNAP UNHAPPY Last summer, Baldwin had an unpleasant standoff with a photographer from the New York Daily News, who approached him outside his apartment. Words were exchanged - but clearly Baldwin felt he had more to say, as he cut loose on Twitter.
"A 'photographer'' almost hit me in the face with his camera this morning," he wrote, adding the hashtag 'all paparazzi should be waterboarded'. '. He then invoked the controversial shooting of Florida teenager Trayvon Martin. "I suppose if the offending paparazzi was wearing a hoodie, and I shot him, it would all blow over." Stay classy Alec.
QUEEN OF ALL HE SURVEYS In 2010 the National Inquirer ran a story about Twitter tirade: Alec Baldwin and his wife Hilaria an alleged shouting match between Baldwin and 30 Rock co-star Tina Fey.
Foreshadowing the widely perceived homophobic overtones of his attack on George Stark, Baldwin dubbed National Inquirer columnist Mike Walker a "whore" and "queen". Walker hit back, accusing Baldwin of being a "raging closet homophobe". Baldwin had the last word, even if it didn''t make much sense. "He [Walker] is a goat-footed, wheezy, old queen," he told the New York Post. "And all my male lovers agree with me."
LIVIN' LA VIDA MOCHA Two years ago Baldwin had a loud disagreement with a Starbucks barista. Naturally he decided to express his unhappiness via Twitter.
"Starbucks on 93 and B''way. Uptight Queen barista named JAY has an attitude problem." This time, there was pushback, with individuals who had witnessed the exchange rushing to "Jay's" defence. "I was here when it happened - it was really just [Alec] being an [expletive]," said a bystander.
IRELAND''S CALL A "zip up your mickey moment" of the first order, in 2007 Alec Baldwin left a cutting voicemail for his then 11-year-old daughter Ireland after she missed his scheduled call.
He dubbed her a "rude, vile little pig," adding "you have humiliated me for the last time". Somehow the message made its way into the public realm and was an early scoop for gossip site TMZ.
