After a year and a half of living as a hermit, George Zimmerman emerged from a Florida courthouse a free man, cleared of all charges in the shooting of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin.
His brother said the former neighbourhood watch volunteer was still processing the reality that he wouldn't serve prison time for the killing, which Mr Zimmerman, 29, has maintained was an act of self-defence. A jury found him not guilty of second-degree murder on Saturday and declined to convict him on a lesser charge of manslaughter.
However, with many critics angry over his acquittal, his freedom will likely be limited. 
"He's going to be looking over his shoulder the rest of his life," Robert Zimmerman Jr said.
Mr Martin's killing in February 2012 unleashed furious debate across the US over racial profiling, self-defence and equal justice. Protesters across the country lashed out against police in the Orlando suburb of Sanford, outraged that it took 44 days for Mr Zimmerman to be arrested. Many, including Mr Martin's parents, claimed Mr Zimmerman had racially profiled the unarmed black teen. Mr Zimmerman is Hispanic.
Six anonymous female jurors - all but one of them white - considered nearly three weeks of often wildly conflicting testimony over who was the aggressor on the night the 17-year-old was shot while walking through the gated townhouse community where he was staying and where Mr Zimmerman lived.
They deliberated more than 15 hours over two days before announcing late on Saturday night that they had reached a verdict.
Defence lawyer Mark O'Mara said in August 2012 that Mr Zimmerman and his wife, Shellie, had been living "like a hermit" because they feared for their safety.
After the verdict, police, officials and civil rights leaders urged peace and told protesters not to resort to violence. While defence lawyers said they were thrilled with the outcome, Mr O'Mara suggested Mr Zimmerman's safety would be an ongoing concern. "There still is a fringe element that wants revenge," Mr O'Mara said. 
Those watching the case reacted strongly when the not-guilty verdict was announced. Mr Martin's mother and father weren't in the courtroom when the verdict was read; supporters of his family who had gathered outside yelled "No! No!" upon the announcement.
Andrew Perkins, 55, a black resident of Sanford, angrily asked outside the courthouse: "How the hell did they find him not guilty?"
"He killed somebody and got away with murder," Mr Perkins shouted, so angry he shook.
TrayvonMartin's brother, Jahvaris Fulton, said on Twitter: "Et tu America?" - a reference to the Latin phrase "Et tu, Brute?" known as an expression of betrayal.
Protesters had taken to the streets in Florida, Atlanta and San Francisco, among other places, and were mostly peaceful.
Martin family attorney Benjamin Crump acknowledged the disappointment of TrayvonMartin's supporters, ranking the teen alongside civil rights heroes Medgar Evers and Emmett Till in the fight for equal justice. However, he said, "for Trayvon to rest in peace, we must all be peaceful".
Mr Martin's family maintained the teen wasn't the aggressor, and prosecutors suggested Mr Martin was scared because he was being followed by a stranger. 
But defence attorneys claimed Mr Martin knocked Mr Zimmerman down and slammed the older man's head against the pavement when Mr Zimmerman fired his gun.
Prosecutors called Zimmerman a liar and portrayed him as a "wannabe cop" vigilante who had grown frustrated by break-ins in his neighbourhood. Mr Zimmerman assumed Mr Martin was up to no good and took the law into his own hands, prosecutors said. State Attorney Angela Corey said after the verdict that she believed second-degree murder was the appropriate charge because Mr Zimmerman's mindset "fit the bill of second-degree murder".
"We charged what we believed we could prove," Ms Corey said.
Despite the racially charged nature of the case, race was barely mentioned. "This case has never been about race or the right to bear arms," Ms Corey said. "We believe this case all along was about boundaries, and George Zimmerman exceeded those boundaries."
One of the mentions of race came from witness Rachel Jeantel, the Miami teen who was talking to Martin on the phone moments before he was shot. She testified that he described being followed by a "creepy-ass cracker". 
Ms Jeantel gave some of the trial's most riveting testimony. She said she heard Mr Martin demand, "What are you following me for?" and then yell, "Get off! Get off!" before his mobile phone went dead.
