in Sanford, Fla. GEORGE ZIMMERMAN'S fate is in the hands of an all-woman jury after his defense team and prosecutors on Friday got their last licks in the racially charged case.
While only one juror is a member of a minority, five of the panelists are moms.
And several of them looked uneasy when a photograph of slain 17-year-old TrayvonMartin flashed on a screen in the Florida courtroom. 
There were no witnesses to the Feb. 26, 2012, struggle in an Orlando-area town house complex that ended with Martin dead with a bullet in his chest.
So the panelists - who got their final instructions from Judge Debra Nelson - will have to rely on the often conflicting testimony of 58 witnesses who prosecutors and defense attorneys put on the stand during the two-week trial.
The jury completed its first abbreviated day of deliberations without reaching a verdict and will resume Saturday. Members can find Zimmerman, 29, guilty of second-degree murder or manslaughter, or they can acquit him.
Zimmerman is charged with second-degree murder and could get up to 30 years in prison if he is convicted.
But Nelson, over the loud objections of Team Zimmerman, has also given the jury the option of convicting the neighborhood watchman of manslaughter. Zimmerman could get 25 years to life in prison if convicted on that charge.
Before the jury got the case, lawyers from both sides took the panel through the evidence again.
Zimmerman's lead defense attorney, Mark O'Mara, went first, insisting Zimmerman is "not guilty of anything but protecting his own life."
Martin, he said, sowed the seeds of his own destruction.
"We know he had the opportunity to go home, and he didn't do that," O'Mara said. "The person who decided to make the night violent was the guy who didn't go home when he had the chance."
There were four minutes from the moment Zimmerman reported to a police dispatcher that Martin was "running" to the moment when a resident called 911 to report a fight in progress, O'Mara said.
To demonstrate that, O'Mara then said nothing for four minutes as Zimmerman nervously mopped his brow.
"Four minutes," O'Mara told the jury. "That felt like a long time. Four minutes to what? To walk home? To run home?"
But Martin didn't do that, the lawyer said. He circled back and attacked Zimmerman.
Prosecutors have not produced "a shred of evidence" in this "bizarro case" to show that Zimmerman had any other option but to shoot the teenager, O'Mara said.
O'Mara did not mention that Martin was black or that Zimmerman is part Hispanic.
Instead, O'Mara said there was no malice in Zimmerman's voice when he first reported to a 911 dispatcher that a suspicious teenager was wandering through the development.
But O'Mara, in his argument, scrubbed the foul language Zimmerman used in the call when he told the dispatcher, "F---ing punks ... These a--holes, they always get away."
He was followed by prosecutor John Guy who argued that Zimmerman lied "over and over and over" about what happened.
If Zimmerman had listened when a police dispatcher told him it wasn't necessary to keep tailing Martin, "none of us would be here," Guy said.
"That child had every right to be afraid of a strange man following him," Guy said. "And did that child not have the right to defend himself from that strange man?"
Guy also waded into territory O'Mara avoided, stating flatly that "this case is not about race, this is about right and wrong."
Then Guy left the jury something to think about: "What if it was TrayvonMartin who shot and killed George Zimmerman? What would your verdict be?"
"That's how you know it's not about race."
The initial refusal by Sanford police and prosecutors to charge Zimmerman with a crime is the chief reason why the fatal shooting exploded into a national story.
In an interview after the shooting with Fox News' Sean Hannity, Zimmerman explained what happened by saying, "I feel like it was all God's plan." He then apologized to Martin's parents and said he was not racist.
Martin's angry dad, Tracy Martin, rejected Zimmerman's words.
"There is no way that my God wanted George Zimmerman to murder my teenage son," he said.
