All the facts of Trayvon Martin's death came out in court, but the jury system must be respected, lawyers say 
The prosecutor who charged George Zimmerman last year has defended her decision to bring a murder case against him, and praised the state attorneys who presented it.
"We promised that we would seek the truth for TrayvonMartin and due process for George Zimmerman, that we get all the facts and details of this very difficult case before a jury, and we chose to do it that way because we felt everyone had a right to know everything about this case," special prosecutor Angela Corey said in a courthouse press conference minutes after the verdict was read. 
"For a case like this to come out in bits and pieces served no good to no one. As [assistant state attorney John] Guy told the jury yesterday, to the dead we owe respect, to the living we owe the truth. We have been respectful to the living, we have done our best to bring due process to all involved and we believe we have brought out the truth on behalf of TrayvonMartin."
Corey defended the introduction of the "lesser included" charge of manslaughter, which gave the jury another option to hold Zimmerman responsible for Martin's death if they did not believe he was guilty of murder, and which could have led to a 30-year jail sentence.
"We charge what we believe we can prove," she said. "That's why we charged second-degree murder. We truly believe that the mindset of George Zimmerman and the words that he used and the reason he was out doing what he was doing fit the bill for second-degree murder.
"This case has never been about race, nor has it ever been about the right to bear arms, not in the sense of prosecuting this as a criminal case. But TrayvonMartin was profiled, there's no doubt he was profiled to be a criminal. This case was about boundaries and George Zimmerman exceeded those boundaries."
Bernie de la Rionda, the state's lead attorney, said: "We live in a great country that has a great criminal justice system. It's not perfect but it's the best in the world and we respect the jury's verdict.
"I've tried 300 and something cases, about 80 murder cases and this is only the second murder case that I've lost. Am I disappointed? Yes, because I thought he was guilty. But what matters is what the jury said and I accept it."
Fellow prosecutor Richard Mantei praised the "dignity" shown by Martin's parents, Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, throughout the legal process.
"They've been dignified and shown class, they've kept their pain in check when they needed to and grieved when they needed to, and handled it as ladies and gentlemen," he said.
