RACIAL tensions are at fever pitch in the US with calls for calm after a Hispanic man was found not guilty of murder and manslaughter in the shooting death of a black teenager. 
Neighbourhood Watch volunteer George Zimmerman received a wave of online death threats and authorities in Miami were last night working to stave off riots after a six-member jury -- all women, five of them white -- acquitted Mr Zimmerman, who was charged with murdering TrayvonMartin.
Jurors found 29-year-old Mr Zimmerman acted in self-defence when he shot Mr Martin, an unarmed, black 17-year-old, on February 26, 2012, as the two fought near Mr Zimmerman's home.
Mr Zimmerman showed no emotion when the verdict was read yesterday.
While defence attorney Mark O'Mara said his team was ecstatic at the outcome, co-counsel Don West was defiant and angry.
``I'm glad this jury kept this tragedy from being a travesty,'' he said.
The jury had been given the chance to convict Mr Zimmerman of manslaughter but did not do so, despite asking for a clarification of the charge.
The verdict was a heart-breaking outcome for Mr Martin's parents, Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, as well as crowds outside the courthouse.
About an hour after the verdict was read, attorneys for Mr Martin's family said they -- and the family -- were urging people to remain calm in the wake of the verdict.
``For Trayvon to rest in peace, we must all be peaceful,'' attorney Benjamin Crump said.
Mr Zimmerman shot Mr Martin as the two fought on the ground near Mr Zimmerman's Sanford home.
Moments earlier the defendant had called police, describing Mr Martin, a high school junior from Miami Gardens, as acting suspiciously.
Despite three weeks of evidence, attorneys and witnesses were unable to definitively say how the two came face to face.
Mr Zimmerman said he shot the teenager in self-defence, that Mr Martin had punched him in the nose, breaking it, and knocked him to the ground before hammering his head against a footpath.
After the verdict, lead prosecutor Bernie de la Rionda said: ``Am I disappointed? Yes, because I thought he was guilty.''
His boss, special prosecutor Angela Corey, said her office had not over-reached by charging Mr Zimmerman with second-degree murder.
Prosecutors faced a huge obstacle: They could not prove who threw the first punch.
Jurors were swayed by the evidence of Rachel Jeantel, a 19-year-old Miami woman on the phone with Mr Martin moments before he was shot, who said Mr Martin was worried about a ``creepy-ass cracker'' who was following him.
TIMES AND TRIALS
* Feb 26, 2012: TrayvonMartin shot in the chest at close range during altercation with Neighbourhood Watch volunteer George Zimmerman.
Police decide not to charge Mr Zimmerman.
* March 22, 2012: A special prosecutor, Angela Corey, takes over the investigation.
* April 11, 2012: The special prosecutor filed a charge of murder in the second-degree against Mr Zimmerman, who then turned himself in and was placed in custody.
* June 10, 2013: Trial begins.
* July 13, 2013: Six-person jury acquits Mr Zimmerman of second-degree murder.
