Tempers flared among protesters outside the Sanford courthouse Friday as six jurors deliberated George Zimmerman's fate, and tensions worsened after the jury left for the day.
Dozens of protesters, some wearing New Black Panthers uniforms, and a handful of Zimmerman supporters faced off over metal barricades in a designated "free speech zone" as sheriff's deputies looked on, at times urging the most impassioned debaters to lower their voices.
The scene stood in contrast to the how Seminole County Sheriff Don Elsinger just a few hours earlier gauged the sentiment in his community. 
Adam Teasley, who said he owns a unit in the gated community where Zimmerman said he shot and killed Trayvon Martin in self-defense more than a year ago, held several neon-green signs.
One read, "Free George Now 4 Justice." Another declared "Creepy ass cracker is racist," referring to how Martin allegedly described Zimmerman on the telephone to a friend.
Teasley, joined by his wife and a few other people, said he believed other whites were too intimidated to show support for Zimmerman.
"In my opinion, using the words 'creepy ass cracker' to describe a white person is racist," Teasley said, eliciting heated responses from blacks on the other side of the fence who burst into an impromptu, "We're not racist" chant.
Despite his sign, Teasley insisted the trial wasn't an issue of race.
"This is an issue of the law of self-defense," he told reporters, who at times outnumbered protesters on the courthouse lawn.
But for many blacks, including members of the Uhuru Movement, the Black People's Advancement and Defense Organization and others, outside the courthouse, there was no gray area. The Zimmerman case for them was a matter of black and white.
The case represents "the value of black life in this country," said Life Malcolm, a member of the Black People's Advancement and Defense Organization of Tampa. "If George Zimmerman walks, it says it's open season on black people."
For Chimurenga Waller, the national director of the African People's Socialist Party of St. Petersburg, the trial symbolized "our relationship to the U.S. government over a 400-year period."
"Black people will never get justice. It's not going to happen," he said.
The emotional exchanges between the two sides ranged from whether Zimmerman, whose mother is Hispanic, is a minority, to the use of the word "cracker," to whether Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, should have remained in his car as instructed by 911 operators.
Teasley's sign outraged Shameca Byrd, whose friends repeatedly tried, but failed, to pull her away.
"I'm telling you right now. Zimmerman is guilty," she said. "The reason why he's guilty is because it's not about stand your ground. It's about staying in your car."
Hours earlier, about 30 minutes after the jury was released to deliberate, Eslinger insisted that fears of a violent outbreak in the case of an acquittal were unwarranted.
"There is no tension in Seminole County," Eslinger, joined by Sanford Police Chief Cecil Smith, said after the 15 days of testimony wrapped up Friday afternoon.
Smith was more circumspect. He acknowledged that 15 months of intensive outreach to the black community helped defuse initial anger over the police department's failure to arrest Zimmerman immediately after he killed the unarmed black 17-year-old on Feb. 26 last year.
The killing and lack of an arrest sparked protests in Sanford and across the country and prompted Gov. Rick Scott to appoint a special prosecutor. Zimmerman was charged with second-degree murder six weeks after the shooting.
But the police chief said more needs to be done to address the underlying anger stirred by the case.
"I'm not going to sit here and tell you everything is peachy-keen in the city of Sanford," he said.
Moments after the officials ended their press conference, tempers erupted.
Protesters, most of them black, and a single white man wearing a "Happy Cracker" T-shirt, engaged in a fervent exchange as the media, vastly outnumbering the participants, rolled cameras at ground level and from helicopters overhead.
"No justice, no peace," chanted the protesters, comprised of a handful of men wearing New Black Panthers uniforms; others carrying signs, including one which read, "If you're white and want to get away with murder come to Fla"; and a white couple holding a sign saying Florida's "stand your ground" law needs to be reconsidered.
Some residents are not confident that cooler heads will prevail in the event of an acquittal. Some expressed their concerns to Smith during one of his regular "walk and talks" Thursday.
Holly Manners, 24, lives in the mostly black Goldsboro district.
"I don't want to be here when that happens. I already have plans to leave," said Manners, who is white.
Miriam Holmes, a mother of three who is black, predicted riots "all over the world" in the event of an acquittal.
"If Zimmerman walks, it's going to be hell," Holmes said.
U.S. Department of Justice Community Relations Service regional director Tommy Battles, who has been a constant presence in Sanford since the shooting, participated in meetings with the law enforcement chiefs, members of the clergy and the NAACP on Friday.
Sanford Pastors Connect, a coalition of clergy from white and black churches in the area, held one of their regular meetings at the sheriff's headquarters across the street from the courthouse Friday.
"Our plans are to make sure we promote peace, harmony and goodwill," First Shiloh Missionary Baptist Church pastor H.D. Rucker said after the meeting.
The chief also was visited by NAACP president Benjamin Jealous and state and local NAACP leaders Friday. The NAACP's national convention in nearby Orlando begins today.
Precautions also were being taken elsewhere in the state.
In South Florida, Miami-Dade County's Community Relations Board, formed to ease tensions after the 1980 riots, said in an email Friday that Department of Homeland Security units had been deployed to various locations throughout the county although no threats, criminal activity or demonstrations related to the Zimmerman trial had been identified.
"The CRB membership is actively working to promote intergroup harmony and civility," the email read.
dkam@pbpost.com Twitter: @TheDaraKam
Palm Beach Post in Sanford
Post reporter Dara Kam is at the George Zimmerman trial and will provide updates.
Check palmbeachpost.com for the latest and get unique in-depth coverage
