A jury of six women late Saturday found that George Zimmerman shot to death 17-year-old TrayvonMartin to save his own life on a rainy night in February 2012 when the two met in a gated suburban neighborhood.
After deliberating more than 15 hours, jurors found Zimmerman not guilty of second-degree murder or manslaughter. 
Zimmerman showed little emotion as the verdict was read about 10 p.m.
Earlier in the evening, jurors sent a note to the judge asking for clarification about the charge of manslaughter.
"May we please have clarification on the instructions regarding manslaughter," Judge Debra Nelson read from the jurors' note Saturday evening.
Lawyers for the state and Zimmerman's defense decided to respond by asking the jury to be more specific.
"The court cannot engage in general discussions but may be able to address a specific question regarding clarification of the instructions regarding manslaughter," they wrote back to the jury. "If you have a specific question, please submit it."
Jurors, who have been sequestered during the trial, did not immediately respond but continued deliberating as the sun fell and night descended on protesters gathered in front of the Seminole County Criminal Justice Center. The group was the largest and most vocal since the trial started three weeks ago.
Zimmerman, 29, was charged with second-degree murder, but prosecutors also persuaded the judge to allow them to offer the jury a lesser charge of manslaughter, punishable by up to 30 years in prison.
To win a manslaughter conviction, prosecutors had to show only that Zimmerman killed without lawful justification.
To win a second-degree murder conviction, prosecutors would had to have convinced jurors that Zimmerman acted with ill will, hatred or spite toward Martin.
Second-degree murder is punishable by life in prison.
Outside the courthouse, the two groups of protesters were peaceful for most of the day.
One man against violence in the media played a banjo. Two women walked on stilts and started a chorus of Lean on Me.One woman pretended to be dead in the grass, near a bag of Skittles.
Nearby, a smaller group of Zimmerman supporters held signs that said, "We love you George'' and "George got hit you must acquit.''
One woman wore a T-shirt that said "I believe you Zimmerman'' and held a sign that said "It doesn't matter what this sign says you'll call it racism anyway.''
"He deserves some respect and appreciation," Casey David Kole Sr., 66, shouted about the former neighborhood watch leader. "It's a tragedy."
Patricia Dalton, 60, yelled back: "It's a tragedy that could have been avoided!"
Dalton, like most of the 100 or so people at the suburban Orlando courthouse, said she came to support the family of TrayvonMartin.
Some had come just to watch, standing in the shade outside the protest area.
Late in the afternoon, a man began shouting about welfare checks and crack cocaine and got into a heated exchange with a Martin supporter.
Police separated the two, but no arrests were made. Later, after dark, two men were ejected from the protest zone.
Prosecutors and TrayvonMartin's family say Zimmerman profiled Martin because of the teen's race.
Those allegations, and a 44-day delay before police arrested Zimmerman, sparked nationwide protests involving leading national civil rights leaders and spurred emotional debates about gun control, self-defense laws, race, and equal justice under the law.
Police and civic leaders have pleaded for calm in Sanford and across the country after the verdict.
"There is no party in this case who wants to see any violence," Seminole County Sheriff Don Eslinger said. "We have an expectation upon this announcement that our community will continue to act peacefully."
In New York on Saturday, the Rev. Al Sharpton said that no matter the verdict, any demonstrations that follow it must be peaceful.
The Rev. Jesse Jackson had a similar message.
He tweeted that people should "avoid violence because it only leads to more tragedies."
On Saturday morning, Martin's mother, Sybrina Fulton, shared on Twitter what she called her favorite Bible verse:
"Trust in the LORD with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding; in all your ways submit to him, and he will make your paths straight."
Information from the Associated Press was used in this report. Ben Montgomery can be reached at bmontgomery@tampabay.com or (727) 893-8650.
