LOCAL: Conflicting emotions and calls for justice amid rising cynicism
As they arrived for the Sunday worship service at Bethel Christian Methodist Episcopal Church, parishioners in the predominantly black neighborhood of Newtown in Sarasota shared their dismay and disappointment.
The topic on their minds was the same as elsewhere in churches and on street corners across the nation: the not guilty verdict in the murder trial of George Zimmerman. 
"I have mixed emotions," Pastor John Walker Jr. said as he collected his thoughts. "I'm angry because of the whole situation ... The situation never should have escalated to that point."
On Saturday, a jury in Sanford acquitted Zimmerman in the fatal shooting of teenager TrayvonMartin. Zimmerman, who was on Neighborhood Watch duty in a gated community, disregarded a police dispatcher's advice that he not follow Martin, a pedestrian whom Zimmerman regarded as suspicious. The two engaged in a fight that resulted in Martin being shot in the heart and Zimmerman claiming self-defense.
Walker and several of his parishioners said they believe Martin was a victim of racial profiling.
Martin's fate makes him worry about his 25-year-old son and 15-year-old nephews, Walker said.
"They're young African-American males. They're TrayvonMartin," he said.
"The justice system failed the Martin family," parishioner Olympia Baylou said. "Our system has become so technical, we forget to look at common sense. What is going on in the state of Florida? You can kill someone and walk free."
"There should have been some kind of punishment," said churchgoer Patricia Storey. "The prosecution should have provided more options. I blame the prosecution. The defense did its job."
"He should have gotten some kind of time," said fellow parishioner Denisa Graham said. "A child is dead."
At the First Macedonia Missionary Church in Punta Gorda, the verdict generated discussion during adult Sunday school, church member Melody Washington said.
"The basic consensus of the group was that they couldn't believe he wasn't found guilty of something," Washington said. "They were concerned about how the public would react. We pray for the country -- and for the family of TrayvonMartin."
Justice or injustice?
At Fredd Atkins Park at U.S. 301 and Martin Luther King Way in Newtown, people were still coming to grips with the verdict.
Some shook their heads as others discussed the case.
"If this happened in New York or Illinois, he would be in jail," Edward Weeks said. "I mean, this is a grown man killing a child."
Brinda Smith, who also lives in the Newtown area, said the case reflects a double racial standard she experiences daily in Sarasota.
"When white people come to Newtown, the police protect them," Smith said. "But we can't go out walking on Bird Key because they'll call the cops on us. Same thing probably goes on in Sanford."
Less than five miles away, pedestrians on St. Armands Circle offered other views about the verdict.
Jackie Smith said she is upset that Zimmerman will not face jail time, but believes the verdict was in accordance with Florida law. "It's the law that's at fault," Smith said. "It's morally wrong."
Smith, who moved from Great Britain to Orlando four years ago, said Florida's lax gun laws lead to more deaths.
Others saw nothing wrong with Florida laws or the verdict. Beth Townley said the injuries to Zimmerman's head made her believe that he was fighting for his life. "I don't think it was racially motivated," Townley said. "George was attacked; he wasn't out to shoot someone."
Who attacked whom seemed to be the aspect most people disagreed about. Liz Cleveland, of Bradenton, said the calls between Zimmerman and the police made it evident to her that Zimmerman pursued Martin. "I think Zimmerman was looking for trouble," Cleveland said. "You don't need to bring a gun with you to patrol the neighborhood."
Others thought the 24-hour news cycle made the case into a national issue when it should have stayed in Seminole County.
Greg Broernan Jr. said he has purposefully tried to distance himself from the case, which has been easy since he is from Ohio.
"The public doesn't need to get involved," Broernan said while he was visiting Bradenton. "This is an issue between two families."
Though emotions ran higher at Bethel CME, Walker preached a message that he said is a message he has conveyed numerous times before.
"My message is always about justice or injustice," Walker said. "I just pray people will not react on emotion. I hope the community will come together -- and I don't just mean the African-American community. It's going to take the entire faith community to come together."
