A pervasive sense of dread fills Fruitvale Station.
Based on real events, the film  begins with a chaotic  opening that is instantly riveting. In the early hours of New Year's Day 2009, police respond to reports of a fight on a Bay Area Rapid Transit train and detain four young black men at a station. A policeman fires a shot. 
Oscar Grant, 22, is shot in the back as he lies on the ground handcuffed and unarmed. Captured on several cellphone cameras, the shooting is posted on websites, sparking widespread protests. Some label it an execution. Shown here in real time, the shooting footage is like a mushroom cloud hovering over the film.
After the unsettling opener, first-time filmmaker Ryan Coogler wisely flashes back to the day before the shooting, immersing viewers in Grant's humanity by chronicling the 24 hours leading up to his death.
As the film plays out, the audience probaby will be overwhelmed by anger and the inability to stop what is coming. Opportunities for the story to take a different turn and avoid tragedy loom, leaving a haunting impression.
Though we are aware of the outcome, we can't help but hope against hope, which is testament to writer/director Coogler's multifaceted portrait of Grant.
It would have been easy to turn Grant into a sacrificial lamb, glossing over his transgressions. Yet Coogler doesn't sanctify the man, who had served time for a drug conviction and cheated on his girlfriend, who is the mother of his daughter.
Michael B. Jordan is superb  as Grant, who dotes on  4-year-old Tatiana (Ariana Neal) and is determined to be a better partner to Sophina (Melonie Diaz). He sells marijuana, yet he is trying to clean up his act. He adores his mother, Wanda (Octavia Spencer), but a flashback shows he wasn't always kind to her.
At the end, we learn that the officer who shot Grant was convicted of involuntary manslaughter and served only 11 months. We see the face of Grant's real daughter at a memorial and are reminded that the living also were victimized.
This year's big winner at the Sundance Film Festival, Fruitvale Station is a profoundly compelling, gut-wrenching and important film. It's particularly timely because of the trial of George Zimmerman, who is accused of shooting unarmed Trayvon Martin to death. Most important, the film reveals a face, heart and soul behind heartbreaking headlines.
Fruitvale Station    4 STARS
Stars Michael B. Jordan, Octavia Spencer, Melonie Diaz, Ariana Neal, Chad Michael Murray
Director Ryan Coogler
Distributor The Weinstein Co.
Rating R for some violence, language throughout and some drug use
Running time 1 hour, 24 minutes
Opens today in select cities 
