No verdict yet in Fla. shooting trial
SANFORD, Fla. -- Six anonymous women began deliberating on Friday whether to convict George Zimmerman for the shooting death of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin in a case that has captivated and divided the U.S. public for the past 16 months.
After presiding over 12 days of testimony and two days of closing arguments, Seminole County Judge Debra Nelson turned the case over to a jury sequestered since the trial began last month. They broke for the day without reaching a verdict. 
Jurors must reach a unanimous verdict on either second-degree murder, manslaughter or acquittal. A deadlocked jury would result in a mistrial, possibly leading to the whole courtroom drama unfolding once again.
Two hours into their meeting, which started at 2:30 p.m., they asked the judge for a full inventory of the evidence. They broke deliberations for the night at 6 p.m. without issuing a verdict and will continue at 9 a.m. Saturday.3rd person in Asiana plane crash dies
A girl injured in the Asiana Airlines Flight 214 crash in San Francisco died Friday morning, hospital officials said, marking the third fatality from the incident.
At the request of the girl's family, San Francisco General Hospital released limited information about the victim, saying only that she had been listed in critical condition.
The bodies of two teenage girls were recovered Saturday after the Boeing 777 clipped a sea wall and slammed into a runway at San Francisco International Airport. Officials identified those girls as Ye Mengyuan and Wang Linjia, both 16, who were part of a group of Chinese high school students on their way to West Valley Christian Church and School in the San Fernando Valley for a three-week summer camp.
San Francisco police confirmed Friday that a firetruck traveling to the scene of the crash hit Ye, though coroner's officials have yet to determine her cause of death.IRS also vetted liberal groups
WASHINGTON -- A Democrat probing Internal Revenue Service scrutiny of conservative "Tea Party" groups released documents on Friday suggesting that "Occupy" and other liberal-leaning groups received extra attention as well.
Rep. Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the House of Representatives' Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said the documents suggested that liberal key words such as "Progressive" and "Occupy" were used by IRS staff to sift through applications for added review, in addition to conservative key words "Tea Party" and "Patriot."
"Occupy Wall Street" and similar groups have sprouted up in recent years to protest corporate power.
Cummings blasted the chief of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, who issued a report two months ago that said the agency unfairly singled out conservatives when reviewing applications for tax-exempt status.
Cummings called for J. Russell George to be summoned before the committee.FDA proposes arsenic limit in apple juice
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, after decades of consideration, has proposed limiting the amount of inorganic arsenic in apple juice to the same level of the potential cancer-causing chemical allowed in U.S. drinking water.
Although the vast majority of apple juice that has been tested by the FDA over the years has contained low levels of inorganic arsenic that were considered safe, the FDA has been wrestling whether to set limits because of the cancer risk.
The agency on Friday proposed a limit of 10 parts per billion for inorganic arsenic in apple juice, the level set by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for arsenic in drinking water.
Last year the agency tested 94 samples of arsenic in apple juice and found that all were below the 10 ppb threshold for inorganic arsenic. The FDA is now setting that limit as the allowable future benchmark. It will accept public comments on its recommendations for 60 days.
from wire service reports
