WASHINGTON
Ex-official gets 19 years for bribery
A former manager with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers was sentenced to more than 19 years in prison Thursday for orchestrating a $30 million bribery and kickback scheme that authorities called historic in scope. 
U.S. District Judge Emmet Sullivan called Kerry Khan's conduct, which included wiretapped conversations describing a planned sexual encounter with a teenage girl, "shocking, vicious and cruel." The judge imposed a sentence four years longer than what prosecutors wanted.
SANFORD, FLA.
Zimmerman jury can apply lesser charge
In an unmistakable setback for George Zimmerman, the jury at the neighborhood watch captain's second-degree murder trial was given the option Thursday of convicting him on the lesser charge of manslaughter in the shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin.
Judge Debra Nelson issued her ruling over the objections of Zimmerman's lawyers shortly before a prosecutor delivered a closing argument in which he portrayed the defendant as an aspiring police officer who assumed Martin was up to no good and took the law into his own hands.
BOSTON
Heinz Kerry moved to rehab hospital
Teresa Heinz Kerry has been moved to a rehabilitation hospital in Boston as the condition of the wife of U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry continues to improve.
State Department spokesman Glen Johnson said Thursday that doctors have determined that the 74-year-old Heinz Kerry suffered a seizure at the couple's home in Nantucket last weekend, but the precise cause of the seizure has not been determined. Doctors previously ruled out brain tumor, heart attack or stroke as possible triggers.
WASHINGTON
150 accused of online wildlife sales
More than 150 people face federal and state charges after authorities disrupted online wildlife trafficking operations involving tiger, leopard and jaguar pelts, elephant ivory and live birds.
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announced the arrests Thursday after an undercover operation that included officers from 16 states, three federal agencies and three Asian countries.
Items seized under "Operation Wild Web" include the pelts of endangered big cats such as the Sumatran tiger, leopard and jaguar; live migratory birds such as the California scrub jay; whale teeth; elephant and walrus ivory; and a zebra pelt.
WASHINGTON
Judge halts Gitmo genital searches
A federal judge Thursday ordered the government to stop genital searches of Guantanamo Bay detainees who want to meet with their lawyers, concluding that the motivation for the searches is not to enhance security, but to deter the detainees' access to attorneys.
In a blistering 35-opinion, Royce Lamberth, chief judge of the U.S. District Court in Washington, ordered prison commanders to return to the old search method: grasping the waistband of a detainee's trousers and shaking the pants to dislodge any contraband.
 Herald wire services
