Judge Debra Nelson rules that messages from Trayvon Martin's phone were inadmissible as defence begins wrapping up case 
George Zimmerman's defence lawyers lost two key motions on Wednesday as they began wrapping up their case for the neighbourhood watch leader to be acquitted of the murder of Trayvon Martin.
Judge Debra Nelson ruled that an animated recreation of Zimmerman's fatal confrontation with the unarmed teenager in Sanford, Florida, on the night of February 26 last year could not be shown to the jury as evidence.
She also said that text messages and photographs from Martin's phone, which appeared to suggest Martin had a passion for organised fighting, were inadmissible because there was no proof he wrote them. 
Nelson's decisions came at the start of the 12th and probably final day of evidence in Zimmerman's second-degree murder trial in Sanford, at which he has pleaded not guilty on the grounds of self-defence.
Mark O'Mara, Zimmerman's lead attorney, said he expected to rest his case today, setting up closing arguments and the likelihood of the all-female jury of six being sent out to consider its verdict before the weekend.
Legal arguments over the animation continued late into Tuesday night, with Judge Nelson storming out of the courtroom at 10pm as defence lawyer Don West complained to her about the long hours he was working.
The mood was calmer when the case resumed this morning, with Nelson agreeing with the state's objection that the animation by forensic specialist Daniel Schumaker was speculative rather than fact-based, and would be prejudicial for the jury.
Schumaker had explained how he created the animated graphic using motion-capture suits similar to those used in Hollywood blockbusters such as Avatar and Iron Man.
Nelson, however, did allow the defence to introduce it as "demonstrable evidence", meaning they could use it during closing arguments for illustrative purposes but the jury would be prohibited from considering it as they discussed their verdict.
The only witness to take the stand during today's morning session was Dennis Root, a former police officer and now a private investigator described by the defence as a "use of force" expert.
Root testified that he had spoken to witnesses and considered police reports in determining what he believed happened during the altercation between Zimmerman and Martin.
The defence has shown the jury photographs of Zimmerman with a bloody and swollen nose and cuts on the back of his head.
"Based on injuries I saw depicted in the photographs, they're consistent with a physical fist fight. It did not appear there was any weapon used," Root said, adding that the fight "ended up on the concrete."
Root's testimony was used to add weight to the defence's argument that Martin was the aggressor in their fatal confrontation and that Zimmerman drew his 9mm semi-automatic pistol and fired once to save his life as his head was being smashed onto the concrete pavement.
Root said he also interviewed Zimmerman, and the owner of a gym at which he took martial arts classes, to establish the defendant's background training and experience. Age, weight and physical capabilities, he said, were all relevant in establishing what might have happened during a fight.
"If I was dealing with Chuck Norris I would expect a completely difference response to any kind of physical altercation than I would if I was dealing with Pee Wee Herman," he said.
Asked by O'Mara about Zimmerman's physical prowess or abilities, Root said: "Without sounding offensive, he really didn't have any. Mr Zimmerman was a very nice person but not the fighter. He didn't have the physical prowess to go into boxing with another person. He wasn't at a skill level that permitted him to physically interact with another boxer."
Some of the more theatrical moments of the trial came on Wednesday when O'Mara and prosecutor John Guy took turns on the floor grappling with a life-size mannequin as they attempted to demonstrate their respective theories about what positions Zimmerman and Martin may have been in during their alleged fight. Defence witnesses have testified that Martin was on top and "pummeling" Zimmerman at the time of the fatal shot.
Meanwhile, police, church and community leaders in Miami, where the black teenager Martin lived, have begun preparing for any possible violent reaction to the verdict. At a public meeting on Tuesday night, Dr Walter Richardson, chairman of the Miami-Dade community relations board, urged calm.
"Somebody's going to be disappointed with the outcome of this trial. It's all right to be vocal, it's wrong to be violent. We already lost one soul," he said.
At least 15 people were killed in Miami in rioting that followed the acquittal of four police officers for beating to death a black motorist in 1980, but experts believe that violent protests are unlikely to be repeated if Zimmerman is freed.
"Miami-Dade County is a far more mature place than in the 1970s and 1980s when several court decisions resulted in violent reactions and fires and deaths and burning," Edward Shohat, chairman of the board's criminal justice committee, told the meeting.
Scott Israel, the sheriff of Florida's Broward County, which also has a large, racially diverse population, launched a YouTube video with the help of local teenagers urging citizens to "raise their voices, not their hands".
"We have no reason to believe there will be any civil unrest of any kind. We just want to be prepared," Israel said.
