President Barack Obama described the death of TrayvonMartin as "a tragedy" , but called on Americans to accept the acquittal of the teenager's killer, George Zimmerman. In a statement, the President said, "We are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken," he said.
Protests broke out across the US after Mr Zimmerman, the neighbourhood watch volunteer accused of murdering Trayvon, an unarmed black teenager, was cleared of all charges against him on Saturday. As dawn broke yesterday, protests had been reported inWashington DC, New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Atlanta and San Francisco. Mr Zimmerman, then 28, killed 17-year-old Trayvon on the 26 February 2012 at The Retreat, a gated community on the outskirts of Sanford. 
The jury of six women heard testimony from more than 50 witnesses during the five-week trial. Mr Zimmerman had been charged with second-degree murder, though the jurors were also given the option of convicting him on the lesser charge of manslaughter.
They chose neither. The verdict implies that Mr Zimmerman acted in self-defence, and was justified under Florida law in using deadly force "to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm" to himself.
On the night in question, Mr Zimmerman, was driving through the neighbourhood when he spotted Trayvon wearing a hoodie. The teenager was returning to the nearby house where he was staying with friends.
Mr Zimmerman called police claiming Trayvon looked suspicious.
The dispatcher told him to wait for officers to arrive. "****ing punks," said Mr Zimmerman. "They always get away."
Prosecutors said Mr Zimmerman left his car to pursue Trayvon on foot. Mr Zimmerman's lawyers claimed Trayvon attacked their client, knocking him to the ground, striking his head and reaching for his gun. The altercation ended with Mr Zimmerman firing a shot that hit Trayvon in the chest.
Civil rights leaders argued Mr Zimmerman targeted Trayvon because he was black. Civil rights leaders were outraged by the verdict, which the Rev Al Sharpton described as "an atrocity". Speaking to MSNBC, Mr Sharpton said Mr Zimmerman's acquittal was "a slap in the face to those who believe in justice in this country".
Q&A: Was it really self-defence? Was Trayvon's race important? Zimmerman's opponents believe he followed Trayvon only because he was a young black man wearing a hooded top in a white neighbourhood. Zimmerman was ruled to have shot Trayvon in selfdefence - cuts and bruises on the back of his head were evidence that the pair had fought, and that was enough for the jury to clear him of second-degree murder.
So is self-defence a plausible explanation? On recordings of a 911 call made by one of George Zimmerman's neighbours as the pair were fighting, a voice can be heard pleading for help. The prosecution claimed this was Trayvon, begging Zimmerman not to shoot him. The defence said the voice was their client's, that it was Zimmerman in trouble as Trayvon beat him. Neither side proved who was speaking.
What about the witnesses? The prosecution's case hinged on testimony from Trayvon's friend, Rachel Jeantel, who was on the phone with him not long before he died. She said Trayvon kept complaining that a man was watching him, and that she heard Trayvon tell someone to "get off" before the line went dead. Ms Jeantel, 18, lied about her age when questioned by police, telling detectives she was a minor. This, along with her evident annoyance under cross-examination, appears to have been enough to discredit her, although the prosecution say attitudes towards her were influenced by the colour of her skin. The defence called an expert witness who claimed the angle of the shot that killed Trayvon proved he was on top of Zimmerman, arguing the hole in his sweatshirt indicated it was hanging away from his body, consistent with someone above the gun.
