SANFORD, Fla. -- In a murder case of chain reactions, the chief prosecutor, Bernie de la Rionda, began with the very first link when he delivered his closing statement on Thursday in the George Zimmerman trial.
TrayvonMartin, an unarmed black teenager carrying nothing but snacks, died of a gunshot to the heart for one reason, he said: Mr. Zimmerman saw himself as a cop and Mr. Martin as a hoodie-clad criminal.
''He went over the line,'' Mr. de la Rionda told the jury. ''He assumed things that weren't true and, instead of waiting for the police to come and do their job, he did not. He, the defendant, wanted to make sure that TrayvonMartin didn't get out of the neighborhood.''
''In this defendant's mind he automatically assumed that TrayvonMartin was a criminal,'' Mr. de la Rionda added. ''And that's why we're here.'' 
Mr. Zimmerman, 29, a neighborhood watch volunteer who said he shot Mr. Martin in self-defense, is charged with second-degree murder in the Feb. 26, 2012, death of Mr. Martin, who was 17. If convicted, he could face life in prison. On Thursday, the judge, Debra S. Nelson, said the jury would also be able to consider manslaughter as a lesser charge. This charge is typically included in Florida murder cases if either side requests it. Manslaughter with a firearm carries a sentence of up to 30 years in prison.
On Friday, the defense will present its closing statement, followed by a one-hour rebuttal by the prosecution. The case will then go to the sequestered jury of six women for deliberations.
The shooting, and the six-week delay in Mr. Zimmerman's arrest, provoked outrage from blacks here and elsewhere as civil rights leaders denounced what they viewed as a justice system historically uncaring of the rights of African-Americans.
In his two-hour closing statement in the Seminole County courthouse, Mr. de la Rionda wielded Mr. Zimmerman's own words, parsing his statements to the police for discrepancies and inconsistencies. Over and over, he played recordings of Mr. Zimmerman's account for the jury, stopping to point out what he called exaggerations and lies.
In those statements, Mr. Zimmerman said that Mr. Martin knocked him to the ground, punched him and slammed his head repeatedly against the pavement. Fearing for his life, afraid that Mr. Martin was reaching for his gun, he shot him. He had a permit to carry a concealed handgun.
But prosecutors said that Mr. Zimmerman profiled Mr. Martin as he was headed home in the rain to the house where he was a guest. Mr. Zimmerman got out of the car with a gun concealed in his waistband and chased him so he would not get away. He was the aggressor in the fight, they said.
Contradictions in Mr. Zimmerman's story abound, they said, citing these assertions from the defendant:
How could Mr. Martin have grabbed for the gun and not left DNA on it? How could he have even seen that tiny gun in Mr. Zimmerman's waistband in the dark? Why would Mr. Zimmerman get out of the car and follow Mr. Martin if he was scared of him? How could Mr. Martin have been punching Mr. Zimmerman, covering his mouth and reaching for his gun at the same time? And wouldn't Mr. Zimmerman have suffered more grievous wounds to his head if Mr. Martin had slammed it against the pavement 25 times?
''Is he exaggerating what happened?'' asked Mr. de la Rionda, calling the statements lies, a ploy to pad his self-defense case.
But in raising so many questions instead of answering them with evidence, Mr. de la Rionda also underscored weaknesses in his own case. There were no eyewitnesses to the shooting, and only one person is alive to tell the story. Dozens of witnesses have testified over the course of the three-week trial, but it is still unclear what happened in the moments leading up to the fight and during the struggle itself.
Prosecutors have a tough burden: they must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Mr. Zimmerman did not shoot in self-defense. Florida has generous self-defense laws that give the benefit of the doubt to a gunman who has a reasonable person's fear of great bodily harm or imminent death.
Second-degree murder is also a high hurdle. Prosecutors must show that Mr. Zimmerman murdered Mr. Martin that night with a ''depraved mind'' -- one that harbored ill will, hatred or spite.
This is why Mr. de la Rionda pounced on Mr. Zimmerman's remarks about Mr. Martin -- just another criminal coming to burglarize a neighborhood that had been stung by a string of burglaries.
''Punks,'' Mr. Zimmerman muttered to a police dispatcher after he spotted Mr. Martin, using a profanity as well. Later, using another derogatory word to refer to would-be burglars, he said, ''They always get away.''
''The defense may say, 'Oh, he was just angry,' '' Mr. de la Rionda said. ''Well, you decide. I would decide that's more than a little angry. That's frustration, ill will, hatred. You've made up your mind it's a criminal, and you're tired of criminals.''
Mr. de la Rionda emphasized another point: In his interviews with the police, Mr. Zimmerman took pains to avoid saying he followed Mr. Martin. He knew, Mr. de la Rionda said, that that would complicate his self-defense claim. Instead, Mr. Zimmerman said he got out of the car to give the police the correct address and walked in Mr. Martin's direction.
During his presentation, Mr. de la Rionda mocked Mr. Zimmerman as a ''wannabe cop'' who knew the law and used police jargon like ''suspect'' and ''torso'' to ingratiate himself with the police. He sprinkled in the suggestion that Mr. Zimmerman was so scared that he might have walked around in the dark with his gun drawn.
After playing a clip of Mr. Zimmerman's television interview with Sean Hannity in which Mr. Zimmerman said that Mr. Martin did not run but was ''skipping'' away, Mr. de la Rionda began to skip around the courtroom.
''Use your God-given common sense,'' Mr. de la Rionda said to the jury several times.
The gray foam dummy that both sides had straddled the previous day to depict the struggle made a second appearance. Some jurors stood up to watch as Mr. de la Rionda jumped on the dummy.
Mr. de la Rionda also treaded lightly over witness testimony, mentioning that different people gave differing accounts of who was on top during the struggle. He spoke more in detail of Rachel Jeantel's testimony.
Ms. Jeantel, 19, a friend of Mr. Martin's who spoke to him on the phone moments before he was shot, had a difficult time on the stand. She was clearly uncomfortable, her speech was often indistinct and she acknowledged that, among other things, she had lied previously about her age and why she did not attend Mr. Martin's wake. Her testimony could be crucial because she said Mr. Martin told her that he was being followed by a ''creepy-ass cracker'' and that he was afraid.
''Her use of colorful language doesn't mean her testimony is less credible just because she's not a highly educated individual,'' Mr. de la Rionda said.
But in the end, Mr. de la Rionda hammered away at the chain of events Mr. Zimmerman set off, he said, when he profiled Mr. Martin, got out of his car with a gun and followed him, despite the advice of the police dispatcher.
''The law doesn't allow people to take the law into their own hands,'' he said.
Mr. Zimmerman, a gun on his hip, made the wrong assumptions and the wrong choices, he said. Because of that, a teenager who was ''minding his own business,'' heading to watch a basketball game, wound up dead.
''The law talks about accountability and responsibility for one's actions, and that's what we're asking for in this case,'' he said. ''Hold the defendant responsible for his actions; hold him accountable for what he did. Because if the defendant hadn't assumed that -- then TrayvonMartin would have watched the basketball game, George Zimmerman would have gone to Target or done whatever he does on Sunday evenings, and we wouldn't be here.''
