Verdict nears in Florida neighbourhood watch murder trial UNITED: Black leaders plead for calm after the verdict in Florida.Photo: Reuters By Dara Kam in Sanford, Florida About a year ago, black leaders and activists took to the streets in Florida and across the country to protest the Sanford police's investigation into the killing of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, and to push for the prosecution of neighbourhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman.
With the jury in Mr Zimmerman's second-degree murder trial expected to start deliberating in Sanford on Friday, many of those same leaders - church elders and community activists - are now joining with police to urge people to remain calm if Mr Zimmerman is found not guilty. 
"We've been spending a fair amount of time trying to figure out what our role should be in this; how to keep the peace and, if it turns out the worst-case scenario what our next moves should be," National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People spokesman Derek Turner said.
"We're all waiting on edge to hear a verdict."
Coincidentally the association is holding its annual convention in Orlando, not far from the trial.
Mr Zimmerman, who is half- Hispanic, shot the unarmed Martin, a hoodie-wearing black, on a drizzly February 26 night in a gated community near Orlando.
Citing Florida's "stand your ground" law, the Sanford police originally did not charge Mr Zimmerman.
It was only after social media outrage and civil rights protests alleging racial profiling and discrimination that Governor Rick Scott appointed a special prosecutor, who brought the charges against Mr Zimmerman six weeks after the shooting.
Mr Zimmerman's defence before and during the trial has been that he fired the gun in self-defence. If convicted of second-degree murder, the 29-year-old could face life in prison.
But in a late twist in the trial, Judge Debra Nelson said the jury could also consider manslaughter as a lesser charge. This charge is typically included in Florida murder trials at the request of either side.
Manslaughter with a firearm carries a sentence of up to 30 years in prison.
Round-the-clock television coverage of the trial has heightened anticipation about the verdict, and anxiety by some about what the reaction to it might be. Authorities have tagged more than 1 million tweets a day related to the trial as it reached its climax this week.
Broward Sheriff Scott Israel released a video this week pleading with people to "raise their voices, not their hands" and to remain calm.
Meanwhile, Mr Israel and his staff met black pastors and community leaders on Tuesday to enlist their help in avoiding violence after the verdict.
"We have no reason to believe there are going to be any issues but forewarned is forearmed," Mr Israel said.
In Miami Gardens, where TrayvonMartin lived with his mother, Sybrina Fulton, police, lawyers and community leaders also held a pre- emptive forum this week, as they have throughout Miami-Dade County, where the 1980 acquittal of four Miami-Dade police officers in the death of Arthur McDuffie sparked riots in Overtown and Liberty City.
In Sanford, mayor Jeff Triplett does not anticipate violence. But he said: "You always have the anxiety of these butterflies in your stomach of the 'what ifs.'
"I would hate to think it would take on a different vibe than what we've seen in the past."
His biggest concern was outsiders coming in and causing trouble, he said.
"You never know what someone's going to do when they think they're on film or on camera or they've come to a place for one specific purpose and they know nothing else about anything ... That's always a fear. We had that fear last year. That is what keeps me awake at night. Someone coming to our town and saying, 'Watch this'." Cox Newspapers
