Although the trial of George Zimmerman took place about 2,500 miles away in Florida, the ripples of the controversial "not guilty" verdict for the man who fatally shot teenager TrayvonMartin were felt in local communities over the weekend.
"I do believe in our criminal justice system. However imperfect it is, it's still probably the best we have in the world," Assemblyman Curt Hagman, R-Chino Hills, said Sunday. "I have faith that the jury knows far more than we do as far as the facts of the case and support whatever decision they came up with." 
The Zimmerman trial just reaffirms what one Colton resident said is the everyday existence of black men in America.
"The African-American community is used to being looked at differently in the eyes of the law," said Miles Whitehead, 71. "You see, we live in different worlds. There's the black man's world and then there's everyone else's world."
If the roles were reversed and young TrayvonMartin had killed Zimmerman, there would be no controversy, he said.
"My grandson, who is a college student at Cal Poly Pomona, is pulled over by the police at least once a week," Whitehead said. "He's a young black man that drives my old Mercedes Benz. The tags are always up to date and he is very insured, but he drives while being black in Pomona. Need I say more?"
Joe Brown, formerly the president of the Pasadena branch of the NAACP for 12 years, is disappointed in the Zimmerman verdict, but sees an opportunity in it.
"Young people of all ethnic groups need to become more socially engaged in the legislative process," he said. "I believe the young people now will become more galvanized and pay more attention now."
In particular, he'd like to see changes to laws like Florida's "stand your ground" law, which allows people to use deadly force when they believe they're threatened, even when the option to leave the area exists.
"This is their era, this is their time, and this is what I believe the Martin family would want to see come out of this," Brown said.
Monrovia community activist Ralph Walker questioned whether justice was served with the Zimmerman verdict.
"Can you really just take someone's life and not serve any time?" Walker said Sunday. "But then you think about history and Emmett Till, and there was no justice there. And now you fast forward to TrayvonMartin and there's no justice there."
Till, a 14-year-old African-American, was killed in Mississippi in 1955 after he reportedly flirted with a white woman. The woman's husband and her half-brother, who later admitted to beating him and gouging out one of his eyes, were acquitted on charges of kidnapping and murder.
"There would never have been a trial if the people hadn't demanded justice" after Martin's killing, Walker said. "Otherwise, this would have been another case that no one would have known anything about, down in the swamps of Florida."
Walker scoffed at those who downplay the racial aspect of the killing, subsequent trial and verdict.
"For those who think it's over, it's not over. Race in America is always the elephant in the room that no one wants to bring up," he said. "We're still engaged in a civil war, and if you think about it, when the president of the United States cannot get respect from the people he works with, how can TrayvonMartin?"
The defense attorneys did a "tremendous job" leveraging prejudice against black men, according to Walker.
"He made the TrayvonMartin 'that black man, with the hood, who could be breaking into your house,'" Walker said. "So the fear of the black man, or the fear of a person of color, continues in America. It's that continuous story that still goes on."
The verdict has sent a chill through the African-American community, according to Walker.
"I think every mother, every dad, who has an African-American son, is on alert: Know where they're going, because once they leave the house, they're not guaranteed to come home," he said. "Thank God, I have three daughters."
Staff writer Doug Saunders contributed to this report.
