TALLAHASSEE -- Gov. Rick Scott said Thursday law enforcement across Florida is ready for "whatever happens" after the verdict as the second-degree murder trial of George Zimmerman gets closer to wrapping up in Sanford.
The jury might begin deliberations in the racially charged case as early as Friday.
"We've got great sheriffs, police chiefs, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, I've been in contact with them, they're ready for whatever happens," Scott said during a morning appearance on WPEC TV in West Palm Beach. "But hopefully the right thing happens here, and we'll have a verdict that everybody understands." 
A number of agencies, including the FDLE, have been coordinating potential responses with the Seminole County Sheriff's Office and the Sanford Police Department, which have been the lead agencies since the February 2012 shooting by Zimmerman of Trayvon Martin, a Miami Gardens teen who was staying with his father in Sanford.
The Volusia County Sheriff's Office is watching developments in Sanford, said spokesman Brandon Haught.
"We are constantly monitoring what's going on and are in regular contact with our fellow law enforcement partners there," Haught wrote in an email. "We are ready to assist or react as the situation warrants."
Orange County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Ginette Rodriguez said, "We're assisting if they need us for anything."
FDLE spokeswoman Gretl Plessinger said Sanford-area law enforcement requested the state assistance.
"As always, we will assist local law enforcement if they request any assistance," Plessinger said.
Still, most agencies, such as the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office, are monitoring the case but don't expect any local public backlash whichever way the jury rules. A spokeswoman for the Florida National Guard also said no directives have been made to be on alert with the verdict pending.
A spokesman for the Seminole County Sheriff's Office said it is not releasing details, other than to repeat that the agency continues to ensure adequate staffing and resources are in place and that there will be support from multiple local, state and federal agencies.
The Broward County Sheriff's Office has created a public service announcement intended to convince people to remain calm if Zimmerman is acquitted.
The video, which features two teenagers, a Hispanic female and a black male, and members of the Sheriff's Office, tells the public, "Raise your voice, and not your hands! We need to stand together as one, no cuffs, no guns. ... I know your patience will be tested, but law enforcement has your back!"
Members of Martin's family attended a town hall meeting Tuesday at the North Dade Regional Library where the possibility of violence was discussed. A member of the Martin family has also set up a Facebook page to urge people to conduct peaceful protests.
Miami-Dade Police Deputy Director Juan Perez told WFOR TV in Miami that plans have been discussed to avoid a riot similar to the 1980 race riots in Liberty City that followed the death of Arthur McDuffie, an insurance salesman and former Marine who was beaten to death by a group of white Miami police officers.
One way to reduce the chance for post-verdict violence may be to set up zones for people to protest, Perez said.
"I think now we've come a long way as a community and as law enforcement in merging together and bridging together our resources," Perez told the television station.
News-Journal Staff Writer Katie Kustura contributed to this report.
