SANFORD, Fla.
Defence concludes
in TrayvonMartin case
Defence attorneys have rested their case in the murder trial of the U.S. neighbourhood watch volunteer who says he fired in self-defence. George Zimmerman declined to testify and is pleading not guilty. The death of black teen TrayvonMartin brought protests when Zimmerman wasn't arrested for weeks, and the case has raised questions about race and self-defence gun laws. Prosecutors now plan to call two rebuttal witnesses. Both sides will then present closing arguments. 
WASHINGTON
Pentagon reports China
has diverse missile plans
China's military has the world's "most active and diverse ballistic missile program," with an expanding inventory of nuclear warheads that can reach North America, according to a Pentagon intelligence report. The arsenal includes a new submarine-launched JL-2 ballistic missile that will "for the first time allow Chinese" submarines "to target portions of the United States from operating areas located near the Chinese coast," according to the new assessment by the National Air and Space Intelligence Center.
COVINGTON, Ky.
Defamation case could
impact gossip websites
A jury's decision in a former Cincinnati Bengals' cheerleader's defamation lawsuit against a gossip website could impact websites around the country, attorneys for both sides said Wednesday. Sarah Jones is seeking damages from thedirty.com and its operator over posts made in 2009 on the Scottsdale, Ariz.-based website. One post claimed she had sex with every Bengals player, and the other said she probably had two sexually transmitted diseases. She says both are false and has accused website operator Nik Richie of malice. Jones' attorney, Eric Deters, told jurors in closing arguments Wednesday they have a chance to send a message to websites across the U.S. that "it's not right to defame people."
NORFOLK, Va.
Drone landing on carrier
extends U.S. military reach
The U.S. navy successfully landed a drone the size of a fighter jet aboard an aircraft carrier for the first time Wednesday, showcasing the military's capability to have a computer program perform one of the most difficult tasks a pilot is asked to do. The landing of the X-47B experimental aircraft means the navy can advance its plans to develop another unmanned aircraft that will join the fleet alongside traditional airplanes to provide around-the-clock surveillance while also possessing a strike capability. It also would pave the way for the U.S. to launch unmanned aircraft without the need to obtain permission from other countries to use their bases.
LONDON
Britain to privatize
profitable Royal Mail
Britain is privatizing its Royal Mail postal service through a public stock offering within the next nine months. The step was expected as the British government has been giving the Royal Mail a big overhaul in preparation for going public, including paying its whopping $6.9 billion pension fund deficit and bolstering its profit. Revenue from parcel deliveries was up 13 per cent in the last fiscal year, thanks to the growing popularity of online shopping.
