State prosecutors are asking the judge in the TrayvonMartin murder case to instruct the jury to consider lesser charges -- manslaughter and aggravated assault -- when they begin deliberations Friday. 
George Zimmerman's attorneys have objected, and Judge Debra Nelson will hold a hearing this morning to decide whether jurors should consider the new charges.
The jury would still have the option of convicting Zimmerman, 29, of the second-degree murder charge that prosecutors sought when the trial began.
The last-minute maneuvering has been seen by some legal experts as an indication that prosecutors are not as confident about their chances for a second-degree murder conviction. Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, has been portrayed by prosecutors as a wanna-be cop who shot Trayvon, who is black, after a confrontation in a gated residential community.
"They aren't going to go all or nothing," Jose Baez, a Florida criminal defense attorney, said of state prosecutors. "They aren't blind to the fact that they haven't proven second-degree murder." Baez successfully defended Casey Anthony, a Florida mother accused of killing her daughter in a capital murder case.
Zimmerman says he acted in self-defense after Trayvon jumped him and began beating him. Zimmerman, who is Hispanic, says that race did not factor into his actions.
Second-degree murder in Florida carries a possible life sentence. If convicted of manslaughter, Zimmerman could get up to 30 years. Aggravated assault would carry no more than a five-year prison term.
Prosecutors have maintained that Zimmerman profiled Trayvon and assumed an unarmed teen was a threat to his community. They called 38 witnesses, including some who said Zimmerman was the aggressor and continuously played up that Zimmerman followed Trayvon.
Zimmerman's attorney, Mark O'Mara, said he will argue against the lesser charges being considered.
"Self-defense is self-defense," O'Mara said. "What happened out there was not a crime, so in that context, there shouldn't have been" any charges. 
