Marion Barry censured The D.C. ethics board fined the council member $13,600 for accepting illegal gifts from city contractors. B1
Record-high stocks Investors sent the S&P 500 and Dow to new heights after comments that the Fed's stimulus would continue. A10 
A prosecutorat the Trayvon Martin shooting trial painted George Zimmerman as a "wannabe cop." A3
A federal judgebarred Guantanamo Bay guards from conducting genital searches of detainees before legal meetings. A5
Pennsylvania'sattorney general called the state's gay marriage ban unconstitutional and said she won't defend it from a lawsuit. A3
Many Egyptiansexpress confidence about the future as Ramadan celebrations begin. A6
A Russian courtposthumously convicted whistleblower Sergei Magnitsky of perpetuating the fraud he uncovered. A6
In Mexico,a man was elected mayor of a small town nearly three years after a coroner signed his death certificate. A7
The Air Forcehas determined that Booz Allen Hamilton is not responsible for the disclosure of government secrets by ex-employee Edward Snowden. A9
Blacks in the District are disproportionately arrested for minor crimes, says a study by civil rights lawyers. B1
Ethics questionsswirling around Virginia Gov. Robert McDonnell (R) have prompted GOP gubernatorial candidate Ken Cuccinelli II to put more distance between them. B1
Prince George's Countyschool board member Carletta Fellows, who was accused of inappropriately using her county-issued credit card, resigned from the Board of Education. B1
A cabdriveraccused of shooting and critically wounding an Alexandria police officer has been declared incompetent to stand trial and will be sent to a state mental hospital. B3
More than 100 people protested outside Smithsonian museums to demand higher pay for employees who work in federal buildings. B4
Charles F. Foley,82, co-invented the game Twister, the life of countless parties for five decades. B6
Jordan Zimmermann gave up two runs and eight hits in the Nationals' 3-1 loss to the Phillies. D1
