  The verdict in the Zimmerman case for killing the 17-year-old black man Trayvon Martin is being considered as justice denied. The high profile trial caught the attention of many people around the world due to suspected racial profiling although both the prosecutor and defence lawyers tried to present the case on the basis of self-defence and right or wrong criminal acts rather than racial profiling and discrimination. The victim, who was of African background, was wrongfully profiled as a troublemaker by Zimmerman, a neighbourhood watch volunteer who saw him walking home wearing a hoody on a rainy night from the utility store. He followed him, had a scuffle and shot the unarmed Martin in the heart to kill him. Zimmerman was armed and physically stronger than Martin. It is difficult to perceive clearly what happened between the two but Zimmerman's self-defence claim does not hold weight, and his acts may relate to his bias and racial hatred rather than self-defence. Despite the racially charged nature of the case, the attorneys for the prosecution have avoided mentioning race during the trial but a vast majority of people thinks that Zimmerman's acts were based on racial hatred. 
Despite the conflicting testimonies from both sides, selecting a single gender jury of six women with a white majority seems to be abnormal, questionable and suspicious. Besides, Zimmerman was not arrested for 44 days after the incident till the public outcry. How he approached Martin, who punched who, who was on top and how Zimmerman drew a gun are difficult to comprehend but one thing is clear: the case has created social media buzz. The jury, which took 13 hours for deliberation, seems to have struggled to understand the definition of a man slaughtering another, and finally acquitted Zimmerman, granting him the 'not guilty' verdict. All concerned have to accept the jury's decision but many believe that the judiciary failed to deliver justice due to the racial profiling of the victim. This not guilty verdict will be remembered as a sad chapter in US race relations due to shattered faith in the country's judicial system. A white security guard kills an unarmed boy and gets away with the murder. It is extremely regrettable to see that racial profiling is still obvious in some part of the US.
