SANFORD, Fla. -- With the defense a day away from wrapping up its case, a widely known expert in forensic pathology, Dr. Vincent Di Maio, testified on Tuesday that Trayvon Martin's injuries suggest he was on top of and leaning over George Zimmerman when Mr. Zimmerman fired his gun last year.
A witness for the defense, Dr. Di Maio said the gun barrel rested against Mr. Martin's sweatshirt, which hung two to four inches away from Mr. Martin's chest. The bullet, he said, entered his heart from the front, in a left to right direction, and plunged into one of his lungs.
''This is consistent with Mr. Zimmerman's account,'' said Dr. Di Maio, the retired longtime chief medical examiner for Bexar County, Tex., whose county seat is San Antonio. ''That Mr. Martin was over him, leaning forward, at the time that he was shot.'' 
Dr. Di Maio also said it was possible for Mr. Martin to have moved or talked for at least 10 to 15 seconds after he was shot because of the reservoir of oxygen in the brain. Defense lawyers hoped that this might explain why Mr. Martin was not found on his back with his arms outstretched, as Mr. Zimmerman has described, but face down with his arms under him.
Dr. Di Maio will be one of the defense's final witnesses. By day's end, Mark O'Mara, one of Mr. Zimmerman's lawyers, said he would be finished by Wednesday.
At this juncture, Mr. Zimmerman appears unlikely to testify, a sign of confidence on the part of the defense. Placing a defendant on the stand is always fraught with risk. In this case, Mr. Zimmerman provided so many statements to the police that it may not be necessary, legal experts have said.
On Tuesday, Dr. Di Maio, who wrote a book on gunshot wounds, walked the jury through the science of the bullet's trajectory and chronicled the injuries of both Mr. Martin and Mr. Zimmerman.
Under cross-examination, Dr. Di Maio said it was possible that Mr. Martin could have been trying to get off Mr. Zimmerman, even if he was leaning. The doctor also told the jury that he had been paid $2,400 so far by the defense to testify at the trial, adding, ''This is not exactly a complicated case forensically.''
Mr. Zimmerman, 29, is charged with second-degree murder in the shooting death of Mr. Martin, an unarmed black 17-year-old, on Feb. 26, 2012. He told the police that he shot Mr. Martin in self-defense after the teenager knocked him to the ground, punched him in the nose, straddled him on the ground and repeatedly slammed his head into the pavement. The prosecution maintains that Mr. Zimmerman, the volunteer neighborhood watch coordinator, pursued Mr. Martin and instigated the confrontation that ended in Mr. Martin's death.
For the defense, the purpose of Dr. Di Maio's testimony was to document the injuries and the path of the bullet to show that they were consistent with Mr. Zimmerman's account of the struggle. The prosecution contends that Mr. Zimmerman's injuries were relatively minor, defying his claim that his head had struck concrete again and again.
On Tuesday, the chief prosecutor, Bernie de la Rionda, suggested to Dr. Di Maio that perhaps a tree branch or rolling on pavement could have caused the cuts and lumps to his head.
Yes, he replied, but ''you'd have to have a tree branch there and I didn't see any,'' he said.
Dr. Di Maio testified that Mr. Zimmerman suffered at least six identifiable injuries to his face and head. Among them, he said, were two separate swollen spots on his head, along with rows of red spots, that were consistent with the assault that Mr. Zimmerman had described. A nose injury -- most likely a broken nose that was pushed back in place, he said -- and markings on his forehead were consistent with punches, he added.
The fact that there were only two small cuts to the back of the head does not mean his head did not strike the concrete, Dr. Di Maio said.
Head injuries do not necessarily cause visible bleeding, he said. The bleeding often occurs inside the skull, which is why CT scans are used on people with head injuries.
''Everyone has fallen and hit their head, and you don't get lacerations,'' Dr. Di Maio said. ''You can get severe head trauma actually without any marks on the head. Or you can get marks, lacerations and contusions and have head trauma.''
Intracranial bleeding is often the most worrisome wound resulting from head injury. As the brain crashes into the skull, it can cause concussions, impairment and death, he said. Dr. Di Maio said Mr. Zimmerman's wounds could have caused him to feel stunned. The injuries did not appear to be life-threatening, he said.
''Concrete doesn't yield when your head hits concrete,'' he said. ''Your head yields to the concrete.''
Asked whether the lack of bruising on Mr. Martin's knuckles was significant, Dr. Di Maio said that knuckles can bruise or not bruise depending on what they hit. Dr. Di Maio also said that bruising can sometimes be found inside the hand, but the doctor who performed the autopsy did not check. The prosecution contends that the near lack of wounds on Mr. Martin's hands shows he did not punch Mr. Zimmerman repeatedly.
Dr. Di Maio also was critical of crime scene and evidence technicians. Mr. Martin's wet clothing was sealed in plastic, which led to the accumulation of mold and bacteria. This can degrade DNA, he said. Earlier in the trial a witness testified that when he opened the evidence bag it smelled ''pungent,'' a sign it had been compromised. The cuffs and sleeves of Mr. Martin's sweatshirt did not contain Mr. Zimmerman's DNA, despite the struggle.
Later on Tuesday, the defense returned to a discussion of the 911 call on the night of the shooting that contained shouts for help.
A witness, Norton N. Bonaparte Jr., Sanford's city manager, testified that Mr. Martin's parents, Tracy Martin and Sybrina Fulton, and a few relatives had been invited to the mayor's office to hear the call. They asked that law enforcement not be present. After hearing the call, Mr. Martin's parents concluded it was their son screaming for help. Two police officers testified that Tracy Martin said two days after the shooting that it was not his son.
The fact that they heard the call together, instead of individually, raised concerns among law enforcement officials who said the parents could have influenced one another.
Mr. Bonaparte said he and the mayor were trying to be sensitive to the parents in their anguish.
