Two more schools have announced their participation in the 2013 National Scout Jamboree, which will be held at its new, permanent location at The Summit Bechtel Family National Scout Reserve in Fayette County. 
Fairmont State University's College of Science and Technology and the University of Charleston's School of Pharmacy will give Scouts information about school programs during the Jamboree, held July 15-24.
Fairmont State will participate in the Technology Quest area, which will showcase science and technology. Scouts will have a chance to participate in activities, demonstrations and more from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The college's demonstrations will include high-tech surveying equipment that will teach Scouts how to establish and obtain accurate distance measurements; a rapid prototyper that allows the use of CAD software and a 3-D printer that can design and produce a 3-D version of the 2013 National Scout Jamboree at Summit logo as a giveaway for the Scouts; and a computerized, numerically controlled woodcarver that will also allow Scouts to produce a 3-D version of the Jamboree logo to keep.
UC will also participate in the Technology Quest area and give Scouts the opportunity to learn more about asthma and allergies in an interactive environment.
Scouts can learn about medical conditions and how drugs used in asthma and severe allergies work, about medicine and pharmacy, and how to be prepared in situations that may occur to an individual or fellow Scout with asthma or allergies.
Four stations in the tent will include a simulation mannequin that will present signs and symptoms of a patient experiencing an asthma attack or allergic reaction, interactive games that will demonstrate how allergies and asthma affect the body, a game show where Scouts will compete by answering questions about asthma and allergies, and a mucous compounding station which will allow Scouts to "make" mucous - a component of asthma.
For more information about programs in the Fairmont State University College of Science and Technology, visit www.fairmontstate.edu.
For more information about programs in the University of Charleston School of Pharmacy, visit www.ucwv.edu.
For more information about the 2013 National Scout Jamboree, visit https://summit. scouting.org.
For more information on the Boy Scouts of America, visit www.scouting.org.
Contact writer Candace Nelson at Candace.Nelson@dailymail.com or 304-348-5148. Follow her at www.twitter.com/Candace07.
Linky-links:
www.fairmontstate.edu
www.ucwv.edu/
https://summit.scouting.org
www.scouting.org
CRAIG CUNNINGHAM/DAILY MAIL
The 2013 National Boy Scout Jamboree begins today on the sprawling Summit Bechtel Family National Scout Reserve in Southern West Virginia. Universities will be at the Jamboree to showcase programs and let scouts participate in demonstrations.
the associated press
Oakland, Calif. police officers work to extinguish a fire during a protest after George Zimmerman was found not guilty in the 2012 shooting death of teenager Trayvon Martin. Protesters angered by the acquittal of Zimmerman held large peaceful demonstrations in three California cities.
