Prosecutor calls Zimmerman 'wannabe cop'
SANFORD, Fla. -- "Wannabe cop" George Zimmerman wrongly profiled Trayvon Martin as a criminal, followed him with a gun and provoked him into a fight that resulted in the shooting death of the unarmed black teenager, a prosecutor said on Thursday.
"A teenager is dead," Florida state prosecutor Bernie de la Rionda told the jury in closing arguments of Zimmerman's second-degree murder trial. "He is dead through no fault of his own. He is dead because another man made assumptions." 
Defense lawyers were due to present their closing arguments on Friday, followed by a final prosecution rebuttal, after which the jury would begin deliberating a case that has captivated and polarized much of the U.S. public.
Earlier on Thursday, Seminole County Judge Debra Nelson gave jurors the option of convicting Zimmerman of the lesser charge of manslaughter. Prosecutors wanted the sequestered, all-female jury to have the option of choosing a lesser offense that still carried a potentially lengthy sentence.
The defense preferred an all-or-nothing choice of second-degree murder, confident it had shown Zimmerman acted in self-defense and concerned the jury might opt for what lead defense lawyer Mark O'Mara described as a "compromise verdict."Pa. AG won't defend state in same-sex suit
PHILADELPHIA -- Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane refused on Thursday to fight a lawsuit brought by the American Civil Liberties Union challenging the state's ban on same-sex marriage.
The lawsuit is believed to be the first federal case since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled on June 26 that the U.S. government must recognize same-sex marriages in states where it is legal.
Kane, a Democrat who supports same-sex marriage, announced her decision at a press conference in the National Constitution Center in historic Philadelphia.
"We are the land of the free and the home of the brave and I want to start acting like that," she said.Ill. governor suspends legislator pay
CHICAGO -- The fight over fixing Illinois' pension liability has come down to this: Unable to forge a plan to solve the state's $100 billion pension underfunding, the governor is suspending legislators' $68,000-a-year paychecks.
Gov. Pat Quinn on Wednesday used his line-item veto to eliminate salaries for state lawmakers from the fiscal 2014 budget. If the salaries indeed are cut, the move saves the state $1.15 million a month.
Quinn, a Democrat, said he is also suspending his own salary until a pension bill hits his desk.
The governor said lawmakers have pushed the state into a crisis by failing to resolve the public pension liability that has driven Illinois' credit rating to the lowest level among U.S. states.
Senate President John Cullerton, a fellow Democrat, took Quinn to task, saying the work of a special legislative conference committee seeking a compromise solution on pensions should not be undermined or deterred by political grandstanding.Bomb, gun attacks across Iraq kill at least 44
BAGHDAD -- Bombers and gunmen attacked policemen and a wake in Iraq among other targets, killing at least 44 people across the country on Thursday, in the latest burst of violence that has raised concerns about a return to civil strife.
Gunmen opened fire on two checkpoints guarding oil installations on the road between Haditha and Baiji, 111 miles north of the capital, killing 11 people, police said.
In the town of Muqdadiya, 11 more people were killed when a car bomb exploded at a wake. As survivors gathered to evacuate the wounded, a suicide bomber blew himself up, police said.
"I was sitting inside the tentwhen I heard a huge explosion. I rushed out [and] saw a car burning. While we were busy evacuating the injured, a suicide bomber took us by surprise," said 47-year-old teacher Kadhim Hassan, who was taken to hospital with injuries to his leg.
The violence is part of a sustained campaign of militant attacks since the start of the year that has prompted warnings of wider conflict in a country where ethnic Kurds, Shiite and Sunni Muslims have yet to find a stable power-sharing compromise.
from wire service reports
