While Twitter and CNN kept up a steady buzz about the George Zimmerman jury deliberations all day, Edith Bush turned her back on it all.
"I don't look at it. It's too emotional for me," said Bush, 81, of West Palm Beach. 
"It's like a nightmare that this is happening in this country, now with the 50th anniversary of the civil rights movement, and with the Supreme Court taking away our voting rights."
Jurors began their second day of deliberations at 9 a.m. in Sanford, where they have been sequestered since Zimmerman's murder trial began more than three weeks ago.
Bush, a member of the Martin Luther King Jr. Coordinating Committee, is a veteran of the civil rights movement. More recently she was one of those who traveled to Sanford to protest the fact that it took police so long to arrest Zimmerman after the shooting death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin last year.
Bush predicted trouble in the black community if Zimmerman is acquitted.
"If he gets off, it's going to be a powder keg," Bush said. "The young people are tired of this."
So did Shawnette Solomon of West Palm Beach.
"They are going to give him a slap, give him probation," Solomon said, predicting what might happen. "If they do, he's not going to survive. ... To calm everything down, they are going to have to give him 10 to 15 years at least."
Their opinions reflect the deep suspicion of law enforcement among area black residents. For many of them, this is not just a trial. They see it as evidence of a system that punishes black men unequally with white men.
"The white judicial system is on trial. The police are on trial. Racism is on trial," said Bush.
On Twitter, the racial gulf was in evidence. Tweets from court watchers were raucous. Some were reckless. One tweeter invited people to a fireworks show after Zimmerman's presumed acquittal. Others described comments as a "black witch hunt."
Some were just commenting on the knee-deep ironies of the debate. Many took the opportunity to use racial epithets and profanity, often directed at shrill legal commentator Nancy Grace. Mini-arguments broke out and were drowned out by hundreds of tweets continuing through the evening.
Someone named Musu just wanted the long day to be over:
"Zimmerman, let me go wash my damn hair."
loconnor@pbpost.com Twitter: @lona13
