Remember all those people who made you scoff when they saidthe Trayvon Martin case wasn't about race? They were right, even if they didn't really understand why. 
At its root, Martin's case wasn't about race. Never was. His skin pigmentation was an enabling symptom, not the illness itself. The sad fact is that confining such cases to race obscures the scope of the problem.
It's about being Different. Which, sure, frequently includes race, but also transcends it in equally significant if somewhat less obvious ways.
Another shooter might object to long hair, Lennon glasses and an Occupy Wall Street t-shirt. Another shooter might object to a woman protesting laws that target her uterus. Another shooter might object to pale youth in sad-clown goth makeup and black clothes. Another shooter might object to gay men holding hands in the park. And, yes, any one of those objectionable people might themselves object to anyone who meets their own concept of the Different, and therefore threatening.
Individuals harbor different ideas about what is Different, and therefore objectionable, and - given the right sequence of escalating events - life-threatening.
Boom.
It becomes an especially acute risk when we're talking about communities like Sanford, Fla. or Chambersburg, Pa., where particular ideologies and demographics dominate and apparent or merely suspected fish out of water really stand out.
Boom.
The real legacy of the Martin case is thatStand Your Ground laws enable a circumstantial, conditional open season on the Different.
Some might chalk our fear of the Different up to base human nature, a fundamental condition that no law can even address, let alone prevent. They'd probably be right.
But we certainly can avoid and reject laws purpose-built to inject reasonable doubt into every step of a lethal-force encounter. Variants of such laws exist in half the nation's states, including Pennsylvania.
Taken in isolation, no one wins the Martin case. If there is an opportunity for anything positive to arise therefrom, it rests not within legislatures but within each and every one of us. It depends on our willingness to confront our fear, to honestly assess its source, to determine how to short-circuit the spark that takes us from Different to Deadly.
There is a difference between defending against clear and present danger, and lower-brain discomfort with the Different that drives us to it. We must find that line within ourselves. That is a large part of the difference between a reasonable human being and an unfeeling sociopath.
As a bonus, such self-awareness would make variants on Stand Your Ground laws wholly unnecessary, and therefore ripe for repeal.
- Matthew Major, opinion editor, can be reached at mmajor@publicopinionnews.com, or find him on Twitter @MattMajorPO.
