An elderly man bleeding profusely from a cut on his head sat on a chair on the side of a street in Goldsboro just two blocks from a new Sanford police station Sunday evening.
According to witnesses, the man's face was bloodied when he fell after being hit with a stun gun in the back of the head while trying to flee police officers.
Neighbors in the historically black community were incensed. 
"They're profiling the neighborhood," Charlie Carter shouted. "I'm tired of them profiling the neighborhood. I don't need that much police protection. They need to back their butts off."
A day after George Zimmerman walked out of the Seminole County Courthouse a free man, the incident illustrates the powder-keg tension between police and residents in the neighborhood.
Police did not respond to requests to confirm the accounts of neighbors, who said more than 10 minutes passed before an ambulance was called for the injured man.
But the incident sparked outrage from more than a dozen Goldsboro residents, who said the situation in Sanford is close to the boiling point.
"An inch. Less than a centimeter away," Carlos Walker said.
And when a Sanford Fire Department officer kicked over the empty chair that had been occupied by the man, neighbors viewed it as a poke in the eye.
"He did not need to do that," Alkini Ranking said.
Two days earlier, Seminole County Sheriff Don Eslinger told reporters from around the country that "there is no tension in Seminole County."
For many blacks, Zimmerman, a volunteer neighborhood watch captain, is indistinguishable from a certified law enforcement officer.
Ranking and others are convinced that the Zimmerman verdict combined with a bitter legacy of racism in Sanford is a recipe for disaster.
The black community of Goldsboro incorporated as a city in 1891. Twenty years later, Sanford absorbed the city as part of its westward expansion.
In 1946, Jackie Robinson played his first minor-league baseball game in Sanford before becoming the first black man ever to play in the major leagues. White fans booed him off the field, and the police chief threatened to cancel the game if Robinson played. Robinson was forced to leave town twice.
"This hasn't just started. It's been going on for years. Trayvon (Martin) just opened doors up to let people know what's gone on here," Ranking said.
In Sanford and throughout the nation, black clergy used the pulpit to push their parishioners to turn their rage and disappointment into determination and civic action.
For St. Paul Missionary Baptist Church Pastor Lowman Oliver, the death of Martin and the verdict was "reminiscent of the days of old school" and his marches a half-century ago.
"We got up and told the world this is not right. We're not going to be putting up with this stuff no more," Oliver preached to at least 50 churchgoers during Youth Day services Sunday morning.
Looking at the faces of the few young black men before him, Oliver said he wonders who is going to take his place.
"If I let this exist then all of them, when they go to the store, are subject to get shot," he said.
But the next generation of clergy did not seem as optimistic that the Zimmerman case and Martin's death would spark significant changes for blacks.
"I don't know what we can do right now," Crystal Haynes, the church's youth coordinator, said while dishing out chicken, baked beans and macaroni and cheese in the church hall.
"We don't feel like justice was served. What can we do?"
Oliver's answer was to walk in the footsteps of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
"I consider this as another civil rights movement," Oliver said.
The focus now needs to be on gun laws and racial profiling, he said. He noted to his parish that the Department of Justice already received hundreds of petitions asking for an investigation into the Zimmerman case.
"When are we going to stop this kind of nonsense?" Oliver said.
While many blacks say something needs to be done, most are not sure exactly what that is.
Threats of violence and vandalism won't help, said Jalaneia Evans.
"At the end of the day, someone's going to be without, and then there's going to be another case. We've got to leave it up to God," she said.
Zimmerman's not guilty verdict may put an end to the case, said Justin Carter of Orlando.
"There's nothing we can really do about this situation," Carter said. "But we can't be silent. If we're silent, nothing will be fixed."
dkam@pbpost.com Twitter: @TheDaraKam
