Seeking jail alternatives
Hats off to Flagler County Sheriff Jim Manfre, who in a recent interview outlined four future programs to reduce crime and possibly provide a homeless shelter.
The first three programs, as fitting the sheriff's office, would be to provide counseling, work release and a halfway house for prisoners. The fourth future program would be to provide a home for the homeless. Never have I heard any public official propose such a program. The possibility for saving the 30 percent of "down-on- their-luck" homeless would not only be a social benefit but also an economic one as well.
The space for some of the above could be the vacated buildings due to the new prison and the relocation of the sheriff's office. It's not too early to plan.
EDWARD MYLIS 
Palm Coast
Just follow the law
Recently a resident of Palm Coast wrote about doing away with red- light cameras in Palm Coast. What is the problem with these cameras? Is it that drivers feel the need to run red lights and don't want to pay the fine for getting caught? Or is it the act of making a right- hand turn at 12-14 mph, as stated in a letter on July 8, while pulling out in front of a driver who probably has the right of way? The statue states you may turn right on red after coming to a complete stop, looking for oncoming traffic, and -- if no vehicle is coming -- making a right turn on red. This does not mean turning right after slowing down to 12-14 mph.
If you don't want to get a ticket, there is a small pedal on the floor next to your accelerator that you can push -- and you will not get a ticket. I know; I have used this pedal for more than 50 years and I have never gotten a ticket for running a red light.
If you are in such a hurry that you cannot stop at a red light, leave home five minutes earlier and you will get where you are going at the time you need to be there. Remember, if you are the victim of a red-light runner and you are seriously injured, was the complaining worth the pain? So my advice to everyone is stop complaining and press the brake pedal when the light turns red! Remember, driving is a privilege granted by the state, and not a right. Privileges can be taken away if you don't obey the law.
PERRY G. JONES
Daytona Beach
Spaceport still a 'no'
I attended the spaceport meeting in New Smyrna Beach on June 25. I wish to thank Capt. Scott Tripp and all the knowledgeable professionals for their passionate pleas to save our lagoon system from the boondoggle that was presented by those who do not live on our lagoon, love our lagoon, or make their living on our lagoon.
First, a clear message: We do not want a spaceport at Shiloh. Period.
Consider these statements by Volusia County Councilwoman Deb Denys:
- We are going "where we have not gone before." Yes we have -- it's called Kennedy Space Center.
"Oak Hill is ripe for enterprise." Please ask any of us if we want our pristine area turned into a toxic soup mess.
On the statement by Dale Ketcham of Space Florida that there had been no commercial space flights from Florida. Elon Musk's supply missions were such -- and launched from Florida's existing launch pads.
Also consider this: The federal government seized land for the KSC "buffer area" not only from the state of Florida, but also from private home owners. Environmental impact studies have already been determined at KSC. The audacity to request the Federal Aviation Administration conduct a study on land that Space Florida doesn't own is a waste of taxpayer money.
And why state that the existing shuttle landing facility would be appropriate for Space Florida to use, but not the existing launch pads. How are these two sites not synonymous entities?
Ketcham's title is "chief of strategic alliances." Why doesn't he start working on an alliance with NASA?
What a collective arrogant attitude and waste of tax dollars.
There are two possible legacies. First, we destroy a fragile ecosystem. Or second, we saved, for eternity, our fragile ecosystem and all who hold it as life.
I will remain optimistic.
VERA ROBINSON
Edgewater
Resolve conflicts with words
If George Zimmerman were trained in basic conflict resolution techniques and strategies on how to deal with difficult and challenging people, he may have been able to defuse the situation without violence. If he knew how to approach Trayvon Martin without causing anger and suspicion, the result may have been different.
Zimmerman, it appears, relied on the fact that he had a firearm if push literally came to shove. He had no need to develop his communication skills because he apparently knew how to fight and use a weapon.
Similarly, if Martin learned the same things as part of his education or upbringing and did not resort immediately to violence, the results certainly would have been different. Talking it over, working it out, throwing out some words instead of throwing hands can work. It's worth a try.
Palm Coast
Keep natural gas in U.S.
In response to your editorial on fracking and its potential, we need to delve deeper. Unlike oil, traded in the global market, natural gas is not attached to a daily benchmark. But natural gas has become a strategic resource that the U.S. should develop with the goal of increased domestic consumption.
We need to think beyond using gas to power our utility companies. For example, natural gas is extensively used in the production of fertilizers -- and it's disheartening to learn most of our nitrogen and potash, in fertilizer form, comes from imports.
It has been two decades since ground was broken here in the U.S. on any new ammonia plants. Now is the time. My understanding is there are 14 new plants on the horizon in five states, with upward of $10 billion invested.
Notwithstanding the recent explosion and tragic loss of lives at the fertilizer plant in West, Texas, we need to ramp up production domestically. Aside from creating construction jobs -- and later permanent jobs in each plant -- our farming industry would benefit from local sources of fertilizer, in turn benefiting U.S. consumers.
Yet I fear natural gas producers will simply move their product to overseas markets in pursuit of more profit, to counter the low prices we enjoy now. I am reading that billions of dollars are being invested in liquefied natural gas plants to export the gas on massive ships to overseas markets.
It just seems incongruous to me that we would take a dynamic, cheap resource such as natural gas, found literally under our feet, liquefy it and send it to markets in Asia or India before fully exploiting it here at home. Fracking has created an opportunity for our country's advancement. Let's not scupper it.
GREG ORLIK
Palm Coast
