FLORIDA (CIHAN)- A six-woman jury Saturday found neighborhood watchman George Zimmerman not guilty of murdering unarmed black teenager TrayvonMartin in a racially-charged trial that transfixed the United States. The trial raised strong passions among those who believed that Zimmerman -- whose father is white and whose mother is Peruvian -- had racially profiled Martin, and those convinced that the volunteer watchman acted in self defense.  
Zimmerman, 29, had been accused of pursuing Martin, 17, through a gated community in Sanford, Florida and shooting him during an altercation in February 2012. The killing ignited widespread controversy after police initially declined to press charges against Zimmerman. "Obviously, we are ecstatic with the results. George Zimmerman was never guilty of anything except protecting himself in self-defense," said his lead attorney Mark O'Mara. Defense attorney, Don West, was even more blunt. "I think the prosecution of George Zimmerman was disgraceful," he said. Defense lawyers insisted that Zimmerman acted in self-defense after Martin wrestled him to the ground and slammed his head on the pavement. Zimmerman smiled briefly but did not appear emotional as the verdict was read. His family was grinning broadly as they sat behind him in the courtroom. According to Florida's controversial 'Stand Your Ground' law, people who fear for their lives are authorized to use deadly force without having to flee a confrontation. TrayvonMartin's family was not present for the verdict. Community leaders called for calm after the verdict was read. "Avoid violence, it will lead to more tragedies. Find a way for self construction not deconstruction in this time of despair," wrote rights leader Jesse Jackson in a Twitter message. Another rights activist, Al Sharpton, issued a statement posted on his Facebook account describing Zimmerman's acquittal as "a slap in the face to the American people but it is only the first round in the pursuit of justice." "We intend to ask the Department of Justice to move forward as they did in the Rodney King case and we will closely monitor the civil case against Mr. Zimmerman," said Sharpton, adding that he was convening "an emergency call with preachers" to "discuss next steps." Rodney King was an African-American man who was beaten by Los Angeles police following a car chase in April 1991. The beating was videotaped and aired on television, sparking widespread outrage. When the officers involved in the beating were acquitted in April 1992, widespread rioting broke out in Los Angeles. 
The NAACP, the largest US civil rights group, launched a petition drive to seek a civil trial against Zimmerman, and urged supporters to sign a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder seeking civil charges.  "The most fundamental of civil rights - the right to life - was violated the night George Zimmerman stalked and then took the life of TrayvonMartin," read the letter. "We ask that the Department of Justice file civil rights charges against Mr. Zimmerman for this egregious violation."  Prosecutors argued that Zimmerman, who pursued Martin against the advice of a police dispatcher, instigated the confrontation.  The jury, which had to reach a unanimous verdict to convict or acquit, deliberated for more than 16 hours on the case since Friday.  Zimmerman faced possible life in prison if convicted of second-degree murder. The jury was also instructed to consider an alternate charge of manslaughter, which carries up to a 30-year sentence.  "Mr. Zimmerman, I have signed the judgment that confirms the jury's verdict. Your bond will be released. Your GPS monitor will be cut off when you exit the courtroom over here. And you have no further business with the court," Judge Deborah Nelson said shortly after the decision was read.  Florida Prosecutor Angela Corey argued that the tragic case was a test of Florida's gun laws as well as social boundaries.  "This case has never been about race, nor has it ever been about the right to bear arms," Corey said. "But TrayvonMartin was profiled. There is no doubt that he was profiled to be a criminal. And if race was one of the aspects in George Zimmerman's mind, then we believe that we put out the proof necessary to show that Zimmerman did profile TrayvonMartin."  SHOTLIST:  SANFORD, FLORIDA, JULY 13, 2013, SOURCE: CBS  RESTRICTIONS:  *NO RESALE for non-editorial purposes*  No Japan  No Free over-the-air broadcasters in Australia  No US cable news outlets, free over-the-air networks or stations, their websites and their mobile phone services  VAR of protest outside court  SOUNDBITE 1 Protester (woman) (English, 13 sec):  "Heartbroken, heartbroken for Trayvon parents. Me as a parent, as a grandmother, got young grandsons coming up in society. This should not happen."  SOUNDBITE 2 Protester (woman) (English, 25 sec):  "Shocked, completely shocked, disappointment. I have a son. I'm wearing a hood right now, I can be holding iced tea and a bag of Skittles myself. I think it was totally wrong, he was not armed, he was just walking, he has his ear plugs in and he was told, Zimmerman was told do not get out the car. That's breaking one law, one order from police enforcement, he's not a cop, he had no right doing what he did."  
SOUNDBITE 3 Protester (man) (English, 18 sec):   "It's said we live in a place called United States of America, when it always glamourize it this is the place to come, not for African American because we've been slaughtered, we've been worker for free since we've been here. We never get justice from a police killing or with another color killer."  DURATION: 01:21  CIHAN
