The fallout over the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the shooting death of TrayvonMartin reverberated across the country Sunday from church pulpits to street protests, setting off a conversation about race, crime and how the U.S. justice system handled a racially polarizing killing of a young black man walking in a residential neighborhood in Florida.
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
President offers 'a way to honor' Martin
President Barack Obama said he respected a Florida jury's decision to acquit Zimmerman, but called on the nation to reflect on gun violence. "We should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to stem the tide of gun violence that claims too many lives across this country on a daily basis. We should ask ourselves, as individuals and as a society, how we can prevent future tragedies like this. As citizens, that's a job for all of us. That's a way to honor TrayvonMartin."
NEW YORK
Churchgoers don hoodies to honor teen
In Manhattan, congregants at Middle Collegiate Church were encouraged to wear hooded sweatshirts in the memory of Martin. The Rev. Jacqueline Lewis, wearing a pink hoodie, urged peace and told her congregation that Martin Luther King Jr. "would have wanted us to conduct ourselves on the highest plane of dignity." But, she added, "we're going to raise our voices against the root causes of this kind of tragedy."
FLORIDA
Calm prevails at site of past violence
About 200 demonstrators marched through downtown Tallahassee carrying signs that said "Racism is Not Dead" and "Who's Next?" But in Miami, the scene of past racial unrest, calm prevailed. "I haven't seen any evidence of problems yet, and hopefully there won't be any,'' said Ed Shohat, a Miami-Dade Community Relations Board . "Frankly, Miami is a ... more mature community than... 25, 30 years ago when we had violent reactions to criminal court verdicts.''
The not-guilty verdict in the trial served as a call to action for participants of the 104th NAACP National Convention in Orlando. "Like you, I have a lot of questions as it relates to the verdict and what it means to be young and black in this country," Sammie J. Dow, national director of the NAACP's Youth and College Division, told about 200 young people gathered from across the country. "If there's ever been a time that we needed to act, that time is now. We need to work, and work like never before, to put laws in place in our local communities to make sure there's not another TrayvonMartin."
ILLINOIS
Pastor: Community must maintain control
About 200 people turned out for a noisy but peaceful rally and march in downtown Chicago. Meanwhile, the city's black clergy held news conferences and issued statements calling for calm. Pastor Ira Acree of Greater St. John Bible Church, on Chicago's West Side, said violence would only hurt Chicago already devastated by dozens of shooting deaths this year. "While we cannot control the verdict ... we can control our streets and communities," Acree said.
CALIFORNIA
Occupy-organized march turns violent
About 100 people marched throughout downtown Oakland, breaking windows, vandalizing cars and buildings with spray paint and starting fires in early morning street protests of Zimmerman's acquittal. The atmosphere was tense, with some marchers attempting to start fights and police dressed in riot gear in front of the police department headquarters. Footage from television helicopters showed protesters trashing a police squad car and a line of police blocking the protesters' path.
