Once again, jury gets it wrong
I find it hard to believe that a man with a gun vs. a youth with no weapon, would be the one yelling "help!"
The jury got it wrong again.
Jackie Browman
San Jose 
An odd case for Oakland to focus on
As shocking as George Zimmerman's acquittal may seem to most of us, let's keep in mind that there are so many murder victims whose killers slip through the cracks of the justice system or are simply never brought to justice. I find it more shocking that Oakland residents would protest Zimmerman's acquittal when the city of Oakland itself has had close to 50 homicides in just this year alone, which already surpasses last year's homicide total and includes a former student of mine, Aya Nakano, who was murdered in a senseless manner last month and whose killers have yet to be found. It seems that the national media has an odd way of selecting stories to cover and Oakland residents will wreak havoc on their own city based on something that happened 3,000 miles away. Think about murder victims in your own city and let's be more sensible.
Gus Elmashni
Redwood City
Florida law is ridiculous
Regarding the recent acquittal of teen-killer George Zimmerman, if he actually stayed in his car and waited for police to arrive as the dispatcher told him, TrayvonMartin would be alive today. It's as simple as that.
Are we really supposed to blame Trayvon for attacking Zimmerman, a complete stranger, who approached him while carrying a loaded weapon? Do we want to teach our kids to listen and obey random people who come up to you in the middle of the night?
While I blame Zimmerman for the killing, ultimately, I blame the ridiculous Florida laws for his acquittal. The whole situation is tragic, from the killing to the verdict.
Nickolas Sandoval
Campbell
Right to protect one's own life
The acquittal of George Zimmerman was right on the money. Those who object to his killing of an unarmed individual need to consider how many times police do the exact same thing and are never held responsible. A good example was in Oakland about a year and a half ago when an officer shot and killed a fleeing robbery suspect.
The suspect in no way threatened the officer. Although believed to be armed, it was later determined that he was not. Yet there was no action or charges against the officer.
The theory that when a member of law enforcement for whatever reason "feels threatened" has the right to use deadly force but an ordinary citizen does not, conflicts with the principle of equal protection as guaranteed by the Constitution. TrayvonMartin's actions were suspicious, and Zimmerman absolutely had the right to protect his life as much as anybody else.
Randall Fullner
Santa Clara
Paper goes overboard in bashing Chavez
Is there no end to the Mercury News unremitting animosity toward Cindy Chavez? From its hostility toward her labor background to its ridiculous assertion in a recent editorial that her opponent is by far the better candidate, this paper has worked overtime to hammer Chavez. While Teresa Alvarado is fluffed as a fresh face who will engage from day one, Chavez is relentlessly attacked as a union crony with a shady side. Now she cozies up to Republicans, just like the Republican-endorsed Alvarado (Internal Affairs, July 14). What baloney. The problem for Chavez is that, unlike her opponent, she actually has a long and proven track record fighting for working people. Alvarado is as yet an empty vessel, easily filled with any number of civic fantasies. Cindy Chavez is someone unafraid to go to the mat for what she believes in and willing to endure the brickbats along the way.
Rachel Sumi
San Jose
Discriminatory immigration bill
I would like to know what exactly the U.S. Senate hopes to accomplish through its immigration "points plan" (Page 1A, July 14). The bill calls for annual green card awards not exceeding 250,000, even though more than a million were issued in 2012, according to the Office of Immigration Statistics for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Of these million, only 14 percent were chosen by employment factors, versus 66 percent through family ties. Drastically cutting the number of green cards and favoring the skilled and highly-educated is not only discriminatory, but encourages illegal residency, providing no incentive for the estimated 11 million illegal resident aliens in the U.S. to seek legitimacy. Furthermore, it discourages future immigrants from entering the country legally, especially if they are from developing nations.
If the Senate thinks limiting green cards to highly-skilled workers will generate economic capital, perhaps they should consider the national expense of supporting 11.5 million people and fix that problem first.
Caitlin Lewis
Student, San Jose State San Jose
