New laws needed
As our president has requested, I am willing to accept the verdict of the jury in the TrayvonMartin case.
Apparently no laws were violated. Our legislators need to get busy and write new laws that will define leaving one's home with a loaded weapon and looking for trouble as vigilantism. The phrase "stand your ground" means you are minding your own business and someone else initiates a threat against you. That is not what happened in this instance. The exact sequence of events, who first hit whom, who was screaming on the tape, do not matter. The bottom line is that if George Zimmerman had stayed home that night, TrayvonMartin would be alive today.
Patricia MerrifieldCarmel Valley 
Shame for Zimmerman, jury
Here's what we know about the George Zimmerman trial: Zimmerman assumed that TrayvonMartin was up to no good or planning to commit a crime based on the way he looked or the way he was walking. That's clear from the 911 recordings.
We know that Zimmerman followed Martin and that Martin reacted to the actions that Zimmerman initiated. We don't know what was said or who threw the first punch but we know a fight broke out, which never would have happened if Zimmerman had stayed in his truck or hadn't made such erroneous assumptions about Martin.
The fight seemed to be pretty evenly matched until Zimmerman pulled the gun. Then the fight was over and so was TrayvonMartin's life. Martin may have been getting the better of Zimmerman but there's no evidence that Zimmerman's life was ever in danger.
Zimmerman expressed anger and perhaps hate when the whole episode started and I'm sure those emotions escalated when he found himself in a fight. He should be ashamed of himself for ending a non-life-threatening fight this way and so should the jury for acquitting him.
Daniel DeCampSeaside
Shame on Ben Jealous
I recall thinking it was pretty cool when Ben Jealous was elected to head of the national NAACP.
Born and raised in sleepy Pacific Grove, his white father the creator of "Breakthrough for Men," his black mother the creator of "Break Free for Women," his is a dynamic, socially proactive family. I thought he would bring balanced and rational thinking to the organization known to take over-the-top reactionary positions on issues that often do people of color more harm than good.
Well my expectation of the young man has been dashed.
Shame on Ben Jealous to have the anti-Constitutional gall to demand that Barack Obama and the Department of Justice ignore the verdict in the Zimmerman trial. Certainly Zimmerman, who is half-Jewish and half-Hispanic, therefore more ethnic that Ben Jealous, is a low life but there's isn't a shred of evidence to prove he acted out of racist hatred.
How come the Hispanic and Jewish communities aren't taking to the streets to confront the loonies led by Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton and Ben Jealous?
Confront them and tell them to grow up and shut up and go away.
Charles GreenleafBig Sur
Play by the rules
How did so much work on the obviously commercial Carmel Canine Sports Center get done on agricultural land without permits?
The county informed the developers that "any activity not related to agricultural production" was prohibited. Under the pretext of preparing for "agricultural production," the developers have stripped the 45-acre site of all vestiges of agricultural use and begun constructing parking lots and other facilities. They have done this while posting signs and submitting plans to the county announcing the development of a large for-profit operation. In response, the county has acquiesced in this commercial development with full knowledge that it is "not related to agricultural production."
One of the developers is a member of the county Planning Commission, which plays a central role in determining how this project proceeds. Under these circumstances, the county is obliged to comply with the law and its own rules and to avoid any appearance of impropriety. Apparently the county has chosen not to do so.
Whether or not you are in favor or are directly impacted, you have an interest in seeing that the county plays by the rules.
Jack HardyCarmel
A way to ease tight parking
Regarding theJuly 11 article by Phillip Molnar on packed parking in Monterey , I wanted to share an observation.
I often am the first customer on weekdays at Peet's Coffee when it opens at 5 a.m., sometimes arriving at 4:45. I have watched five or more cars park in the lot and the drivers walk into Trader Joe's in their work uniforms to presumably go to work. It is possible that later these same drivers move their cars elsewhere during shift breaks. However, it appears to me that they still contribute to the lack of parking spaces.
I would think that if there were incentives (e.g. parking vouchers at garages) provided by all the shopping center employers, these same employees might park elsewhere and walk the extra five to 10 minutes. Of course, there will always be the occasional employee who is late and has to park in front to get a timecard punched on time, but all in all this solution might be advantageous to storekeepers, employees and customers alike.
William GodwinCarmel
Doing something about water problem
I keep seeing articles and op-eds in the paper on how frustrated everyone is with how the water situation on our Peninsula is being handled.
Well I would like to say hats off to the folks who have stepped up to take a leadership role and get something done on this issue. It can't be easy to stand up and try to help, and then be barraged with criticism.
I would like to say thank you to everyone who is trying to find a solution to this very complex problem.
Daniel McCormickMonterey
