'Glee' star found dead:
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Cory Monteith, the handsome young actor who shot to fame in the hit TV series "Glee" but was beset by addiction struggles so fierce that he once said he was lucky to be alive, was found dead in a hotel room, police said. He was 31. The Canadian-born Monteith was found dead in his hotel room.
Egypt's military speaks: 
CAIRO -- Facing unrelenting pressure from Muslim Brotherhood protesters, Egypt's military chief sought to justify his decision to remove Mohmmed Morsi from office, saying Sunday in a televised speech that the Islamist leader had violated his popular mandate and antagonized state institutions.
Mandela could be discharged:
JOHANNESBURG -- Nelson Mandela may be discharged from hospital soon to recuperate at home, said a former president of South Africa. The prediction about Mandela leaving the hospital was made by Thabo Mbeki as he gave a memorial lecture for the African National Congress Saturday, it was reported.
ElBaradei sworn-in:
CAIRO -- A leading reform advocate took office as Egypt's interim vice president Sunday, reinforcing the role in the new leadership of liberals who are strongly opposed to the deposed president's Muslim Brotherhood. Mohamed ElBaradei emerged as the top opposition leader in the campaign to oust President Mohammed Morsi.
Snowden has NSA 'blueprint'?
RIO DE JANEIRO -- Edward Snowden has very sensitive "blueprints" detailing how the National Security Agency operates that would allow someone who read them to evade or even duplicate NSA surveillance, a journalist close to the intelligence leaker said Sunday. Glenn Greenwald said the former NSA systems analyst has documents that constitute "basically the instruction manual for how the NSA is built."
Violence kills 38 in Iraq:
BAGHDAD -- A wave of coordinated blasts that tore through overwhelmingly Shiite cities shortly before the breaking of the Ramadan fast and other attacks killed at least 38 in Iraq on Sunday, the latest in a surge of violence that is raising fears the country is sliding back toward full-scale sectarian fighting.
Indicted Sudan leader flees:
ABUJA, Nigeria -- Sudan's indicted leader Omar al-Bashir arrived Sunday in Nigeria's capital, Abuja, to a red-carpet welcome and a full guard of honor despite demands from human rights activists that Nigeria arrest him to face trial for genocide in Darfur.
Syrian troops advance:
DAMASCUS, Syria -- Government troops fired tank shells and artillery in heavy clashes between Syrian forces and rebels Sunday on the edge of Damascus, where the military has been pushing its offensive to retake key districts that have been in opposition hands for months. The Syrian army has seized the momentum in the civil war over the past three months.
Motorcycle racer killed:
LIMESTONE, Maine -- A motorcycle racer trying to top 300 mph died Sunday after losing control and zooming off a runway at a former air base in northern Maine. Bill Warner, 44, was clocked at 285 mph before he lost control but it was unclear how fast the motorcycle was traveling when it veered off the paved runway and crashed.
Civil rights charges mulled:
WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department said Sunday it is looking into the shooting death of TrayvonMartin to determine whether federal prosecutors will file criminal civil rights charges now that George Zimmerman has been acquitted in the state case. The department opened an investigation into Martin's death last year.
Obama addresses Martin trial:
WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama says the death of TrayvonMartin was a tragedy for America. Obama said he knows the not-guilty verdict reached Saturday has elicited strong passions around the country. In a statement released Sunday, Obama asked that all Americans respect the call for calm reflection.
Boy rescued from sand dune:
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. -- A 6-year-old boy who spent more than three hours buried under 11 feet of sand after being swallowed by a massive Indiana dune is recovering well but remains in critical condition at a Chicago hospital. The boy was identified Sunday night as Nathan Woessner.
