The not-guilty verdict in the George Zimmerman case came as no surprise to several local criminal defense lawyers who were asked to predict the outcome of the trial while the jury was still deliberating. 
Their unanimous prognostication was that the neighborhood watch volunteer charged in the shooting death last year of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin would be acquitted.
The verdict options for the six women on the jury were not guilty, guilty of second-degree murder, or guilty of the lesser included offense of manslaughter.
"I think it is going to be not guilty," Worcester defense lawyer Nicholas C. Bazoukas said hours before the jurors returned their not-guilty verdict.
"I think the defense did a great job of presenting its case. The prosecution did not do as good a job. I just hope that whatever the verdict is, that people accept it," he said.
Police and civic leaders in Florida were hoping the same thing and pleaded for a peaceful reaction regardless of the verdict.
"They're going to acquit this guy," said lawyer Peter L. Ettenberg.
"I think that the evidence that's been presented has been either inconsistent for the prosecution or has not been able to overcome the self-defense defense presented by Mr. Zimmerman. The prosecution's own witnesses have been contradictory to their theory and, in many instances, have helped the defense," he said.
Mr. Ettenberg said he did not believe that race was or should be an issue in the case.
"I think that this was an individual who thought he was doing the right thing for his community and came across a kid who may or may not have been out for trouble. But this was clearly a confrontation that went beyond something you would normally expect," he said.
"I think it will be an outright acquittal," said Walter A. Rojcewicz, another local criminal defense lawyer asked to predict the outcome of the case.
Like Mr. Ettenberg, Mr. Rojcewicz said he believed much of the police testimony in the trial did little to harm Mr. Zimmerman and that some of it was actually helpful to his case.
"I just think that there's reasonable doubt and that they're going to let Zimmerman go," he said.
Defense lawyer Michael M. Monopoli agreed, but qualified his response somewhat.
"I would guess that it's going to be a not guilty," he said, but quickly added that it is always difficult to predict what a jury will do.
While "leaning toward it being a not guilty," Mr. Monopoli said he was unwilling to completely rule out the possibility of the jurors returning a "compromise verdict" and convicting Mr. Zimmerman of manslaughter.
Contact Gary V. Murray at gmurray@telegram.com
