After the TrayvonMartin trial came to a close on July 12, leaving Zimmerman's fate in the hands of the six women on the jury. While everyone tensely waits for a verdict, the defendant's family spoke out, saying they are putting their trust in the judicial system.George Zimmerman's fate is now in the hands of the six women who sit on the jury in his second degree murder trial over the death of TrayvonMartin, the 17-year-old boy who George, 29, shot and killed in what he claims was self-defense.  
TrayvonMartin Trial Ends: George Zimmerman's Family Releases StatementAs they settle in for what could be a long, extremely tense waiting period until the verdict is delivered, Zimmerman's family released a statement admitting that they have no choice but to put their faith in the legal system. Expressing trust in the system, the Zimmerman family stated: From the onset of this tragic event, our family has been clear to express our trust in the judicial system. A jury of one's peers is the hallmark of our country's judicial system. The American justice system is the finest in the world. George's fate is now in the hands of the jury, who will make their decision based on evidence and the facts of the case. As we await a verdict we will remain hopeful and ask for the public to remain peaceful, no matter the outcome. Though we maintain George committed no crime whatsoever, we acknowledge that the people who called for George's arrest and subsequent trial have now witnessed both events come to pass. We hope now that as Americans we will all respect the rule of law, which begins with respecting the verdict. The judicial system has run its course - pray for justice, pray for peace, pray for our country. TrayvonMartin's Family: We Want JusticeTrayvon's family also pleaded for justice as the trial ended. "Justice, to me, would be for the person who killed our son to be held accountable and for all the evidence to come out and for, you know, a jury to hear everything that happened that night of February 26," Trayvon's mother, Sabrina Fulton said in a newly released interview with NBC. "It is up to you to decide which evidence is reliable," Judge Debra Nelson told the six women sitting on the jury on July 12. The arguments are over, the evidence has been presented, the only thing left is for the jury to decide if George Zimmerman is guilty of second degree murder. "You should use your common sense," Judge Nelson also instructed the jury. Considering the magnitude of this verdict, it could be some time before the jury comes to a unanimous decision - a waiting period that will likely be torturous for both Trayvon and George's families. The jury went on recess at 6 PM ET on July 12, but will reconvene on Saturday morning, July 13, and began deliberations once again. HollywoodLife.com will keep you updated as the trial progresses.
