July 15--Monday again, here comes another work week...
Weather: Scattered showers continue. Another typical summertime day, as we'll have a 30 percent chance of scattered showers, mainly in the afternoon, with highs in the middle 80s. Scattered showers continue tonight with lows in the lower 70s. Skies will clear on Tuesday with highs near 90. 
Zimmerman verdict reaction continues. Barely 36 hours after a six-woman jury in Sanford, Florida returned a not-guilty verdict against George Zimmerman, reaction was fairly subdued from those opposed to the verdict, though scattered violent acts occurred in Oakland, California. Zimmerman was acquitted Saturday night of second-degree murder charges in the killing of Trayvon Martin, the black teenager he confronted as a neighborhood-watch captain. "We are a nation of laws and a jury has spoken," President Obama said Sunday in a statement. "I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son."
Over-filled pickup flips, two killed. A pickup truck carrying 10 or more children flipped over in a two-vehicle crash north of Guntersville, killing two and injuring nine. No word on what caused the crash. Alabama does not have laws restricting riding in the open beds of pickups.
Sports: A new home run king? It could be, as Chris Davis set a new Major League Baseball record by hitting 37 homers before the All-Star Game break. That puts the Baltimore slugger within reach of 61, the single-season record set by Roger Maris that many baseball purists consider to still be the "real" record, as Barry Bonds' mark of 73 and Mark McGuire's 70 are considered tainted due to allegations of performance-enhancing drugs. Davis will be featured in tonight's MLB Home Run Derby at New York's Citi Field... NASCAR: Brain Vickers, a Sprint Cup part-timer splitting time with Mark Martin, won his first race since 2009 Sunday at Loudon, N.H. Vickers held off Kyle Busch for the win. Also making news was 71-year-old Morgan Shepherd, who became the oldest driver ever to start a race in NASCAR's top series; he finished 41st... Golf: And at the other end of the age spectrum we find Jordan Spieth, who at age 19 became the first teenager to win a PGA tour event since 1931. Spieth won the John Deere Classic on Sunday in a three-way playoff.
___ (c)2013 The North Jefferson News (Gardendale, Ala.) Visit The North Jefferson News (Gardendale, Ala.) at www.njeffersonnews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
