Anyone under the impression that we had somehow managed to move  past the race problem in this country was, it turns out, sadly  mistaken. In case you hadn't heard, most recent evidence of this  ongoing divide among races came to light this week in Milford,  Conn., a coastal city of more than 50,000 on Long Island Sound.  
    A group calling itself the United Klans of America, surely a  distant shell of the once all-powerful Ku Klux Klan organizations  that dealt such devastation and hatred and death in this country  through much of the 20th century, decided the good citizens of  Milford needed some help with their neighborhood safety. According  to news reports, fliers distributed by the group were aimed at  advertising a neighborhood watch group.   
  Bradley Jenkins, imperial wizard of the Alabama-based white  supremacist group, said the fliers were meant to deter criminals  who have been breaking into cars in the city. The fliers read:  "Neighborhood Watch: You can sleep well tonight knowing the UKA is  awake."  
    Authorities told The Associated Press there has not been a rash of  car break-ins. That's no surprise. That sort of cause-and-effect  reasoning has never been the stock in trade of the Klan or any  other like-minded hate group. Lies and half-truths are their bread  and butter, just enough fuel to drive ordinary people to suspect  any other individual who might not look like them.  
    To their credit, Connecticut elected officials, law enforcement  officials and many residents of Milford came out forcefully and en  masse to discredit the UKA's efforts.  
    "Let's be very clear: Klan and Klan-affiliated organizations are  not welcome in Connecticut," Gov. Dannel P. Malloy said at a  Wednesday press conference. "No one in their right mind is asking  you to be here, and I mean that."  
    "This did not just shock Milford. It shocked the state of  Connecticut," Lt. Gov. Nancy Wyman said. "You know, the people of  Milford can do very, very well without the Klan around."  
    Mark Potok, a senior fellow at the Southern Poverty Law Center,  based in Alabama, which tracks racist and hate groups, described  the UKA as a "very, very weak group."  
    Which is why it would be so tempting to ignore these people, to  simply let them have their say and let them exercise their First  Amendment rights to free speech as long as they don't violate some  sort of local ordinance against fliers.  
    Indeed, I thought about ignoring it, too, until I remembered that  much of the nation is transfixed these days by a murder trial going  on down in a Sanford, Fla., courthouse, a trial that holds racial  tensions, a trial that is being held largely because one man,  George Zimmerman, a "neighborhood watch volunteer," decided he knew  more about public safety than local police.  
    Certainly, we don't know how the trial seeking answers about the  death of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin will be resolved. We  don't know why Zimmerman, on trial for second-degree murder, did  not testify in his own defense. Indeed, there is much we don't know  about what happened on that rainy night in what appears to have  been a physical struggle between Martin and Zimmerman.  
    What we do know is that had Zimmerman stayed in his car and not  been so overzealous in his "duties" with the neighborhood watch,  then Martin might still be alive and we would have been spared one  more searing reminder of the racial divide that still exists in  this country.  
    Of course, when you talk about it, when people like me write about  it, we carry the risk of heightening the problem.  
    But maybe the problem is we don't talk about it enough.  
    Maybe people who are members of such groups as the United Klans of  America, regardless of how small their reach, need to be reminded  that sensibilities in this nation have changed, that the  overwhelming majority of Americans, no matter their race, religion  or sexual orientation, have grown weary of fighting these old and  senseless and demeaning battles.  
    Bruce Lowry is assistant editorial page editor for the Herald News.  Email: lowryb@northjersey.com
