 A report by Oklahoma Policy Institute outlines large and persistent gaps in wealth, income and opportunity between Oklahomans of different races and ethnic backgrounds. "Bigotry not to blame for Oklahoma's shortcomings" (Our Views, June 24) takes issue with this report. The evidence of a racial wealth gap isn't disputed. Rather, the editorial says blacks have higher rates for smoking, obesity, cancer, heart-disease mortality, incarceration and unemployment, and lower rates of education achievement, "largely" as a result of personal choices.
 Of course our choices shape our lives. But they certainly don't shape our lives in a neat and predictable way. The adult great-grandchild of a turn-of-the-century oil billionaire can inherit a vast fortune without lifting a finger. At the same time, the great-grandchildren of survivors of the Tulsa racial violence inherit only memories of a fortune lost in a single day as hundreds of black homes, banks and businesses were set ablaze. 
 To believe that "those acts are now history, in every sense of the word" is to remain ignorant of the real and long-lasting effects of a history that enriched generations of Oklahomans by impoverishing others. Today, nearly half of the state's population younger than 5 is composed of children of color. The obstacles to opportunity still faced by so many in our state matter for all of us, whatever the color of our skin. Kate Richey, Tulsa
 Richey is a policy analyst with Oklahoma Policy Institute.
Race shouldn't be a factor
 I disagree with Sam Mitchell's comparison (Your Views, June 30) of President Obama and George Zimmerman. Both men are biracial. Both have declared their racial preference. Declaration of one's race/ethnicity is a personal choice. However, the comparison between the two men ends there.
 Zimmerman is on trial for his actions, which resulted in the death of Trayvon Martin. The races of the accused and of the deceased shouldn't be contributing factors in this trial to determine Zimmerman's innocence or guilt. Only the evidence and testimonies should be weighed in the search for truth. Pat Cole, Oklahoma City
A flag for all
 Thanks to The Oklahoman for putting the American flag on the front page July 4. Some of us still get a lump in our throat and goose bumps when the national anthem is played. We become emotional when we stand at the base of Mount Rushmore or feel a deep sense of pride and patriotism when we see a group of U.S. fighter jets flying overhead in tight formation. We're drawn to tears watching footage from World War II, Korea and Vietnam, realizing that many of the Americans being killed by the thousands weren't much more than young boys.
 Seeing The Okahoman that day, I was reminded of how lucky I am to be an American and to have been born and raised in the great state of Oklahoma. Also, I give praise to one of Oklahoma's most successful businessmen, Hobby Lobby's David Green. He doesn't cave in when his beliefs are challenged and he's put his money where his mouth is many times. Mr. Green, thank you for the full-page ad on Independence Day! It was great and very appropriate. Kevin Wiyninger, Midwest City
 Send letters to yourviews@ opubco.com or to Your Views, P.O. Box 25125, Oklahoma City, OK 73125. Word limit is 250. Include a postal address and telephone number. For other guidelines, go to www.newsok.com/voices/guidelines or call (405) 475-3920.
