  Jurors last night acquitted George Zimmerman of all charges, exonerating the neighborhood-watch volunteer who killed an unarmed black teen, touching off national debates on racial profiling and the use of force. 
  The jury of six women delivered the stunning verdict after 16 hours of deliberations - including 12 hours yesterday - declaring him not guilty of second- degree murder and manslaughter, in connection with the Feb. 26, 2012, shooting death of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin.
  Zimmerman sat stone-faced when the verdict was read, blinking once before nonchalantly shaking hands with his lawyers.  
  Seminole County Court Judge Debra Nelson admonished courtroom onlookers to keep reactions to themselves - and they did, as no one uttered a peep when the words "not guilty" were read. 
  It was only when Nelson left the bench that Zimmerman appeared to relax and enjoy his good fortune, breaking into a lopsided grin. 
  "We're ecstatic with the results, that George Zimmerman was never guilty of anything but protecting himself in self-defense," defense lawyer Mark O'Mara said. "We're glad the jury saw it that way." 
  Defense lawyer Don West said he was still angry that Zimmerman was even brought to trial. 
  Police investigating the case had originally opted against arresting and charging Zimmerman. 
  "I think the prosecution of George Zimmerman was disgraceful," West said. "As happy as I am for George Zimmerman, I'm thrilled that the jury kept this tragedy from becoming a travesty." 
  The case became a lightning rod of racial politics as the nation debated whether Zimmerman's claim - that he feared for his life - justified killing Martin, who was walking home from a store. 
  Martin was watching the NBA All-Star game with his father and his dad's girlfriend on that rainy night. 
  The hoodie-wearing teen bought Arizona Iced Tea and Skittles before leaving the 7-Eleven and crossing Zimmerman's path. 
  Zimmerman called cops, who told him to stay in his car. But he kept following Martin, leading to the deadly confrontation. 
  Witnesses said they spotted Martin on top of Zimmerman, at one point, likely handing the defense all it needed to prove reasonable doubt.  
  Downcast lead prosecutor Bernie de la Rionda was clearly still upset, and rehashed basic facts of the trial. 
  "Who was following who? Isn't that what this case boils down to?" he said. "What this case boiled down to was a kid, minding his own business, being followed by a stranger. A kid wearing a hoodie who was minding his own business being followed by a guy who wants to be a cop." 
  State Attorney Angela Corey thanked jurors and said her prosecutors put forward their best possible case.  
  "We believe we brought out the truth on behalf of TrayvonMartin," Corey said. 
  Zimmerman was originally charged with second-degree murder before Judge Nelson's controversial decision to allow jurors to also consider the lesser charge of manslaughter, which still could have landed him in prison for up to 30 years. 
  About 100 people last night gathered outside the courthouse. Many of them broke down in tears when the verdict was read. 
  Members of Martin's family, a constant presence in the court throughout the trial, curiously did not attend last night's verdict.  
  Their lawyers would only explain that Martin's parents were in a "safe location for security purposes" last night - but said they would attend church services this morning. 
  The teen's father, Tracy Martin, reacted via Twitter: "Even though I am broken hearted my faith is unshattered I WILL ALWAYS LOVE MY BABY TRAY." 
  The teen's mom, Sybrina Fulton, tweeted: "Lord during my darkest hour I lean on you. You are all that I have." 
  Trayvon's big brother, Jahvaris Fulton, wrote: "Et tu America?" - a play off Shakespeare's timeless Latin line "Et tu, Brute?" synonymous with betrayal. 
  Even though Zimmerman is a free man, he'll be watching his back, supporters said. 
  "We'll always be concerned about our safety and George's safety because of vigilantes," brother Robert Zimmerman Jr. told CNN. "He has reason to think now more than ever that people could try to kill him."  
  Prosecutors tried to paint George Zimmerman as a violent cop wannabe who racially profiled Martin. 
   Zimmerman successfully leaned on Florida's "stand your ground" law, which allows deadly force to save one's own life. 
  The defense portrayed Martin as a pot-smoking troublemaker who liked to fight and had been suspended from school for skipping classes. 
   O'Mara said he's not sure what Zimmerman will do now. 
  "I think you need to go somewhere, relax, get your bearings back," O'Mara said. "I'm sure if he could wave his magic wand, he'd get his life back." 
  Additional reporting by Kathianne Boniello and Eli Jace in NY 
