President Barack Obama called for calm yesterday after the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the fatal shooting of unarmed black teenager TrayvonMartin, saying his death was a tragedy and that the country should seek ways to stem gun violence. 
Cleared by a Florida jury on Saturday, Zimmerman walked free from criminal charges in the shooting death of Martin, but still faces public outrage, a possible civil suit and demands for a federal investigation.
The six jurors who deliberated for 16 hours over two days found Zimmerman not guilty of second-degree murder and manslaughter in a case that has polarised the US public.
Zimmerman said he acted in self-defence, while civil rights activists said the shooting was racially motivated.
"We are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken," Obama, the first black US president, said in a statement. "I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son."
Obama, who last year said that "if I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon", added that he was aware the Florida case has elicited strong feelings. "And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher," he said.
The president urged Americans to broaden "the circle of understanding and compassion" in their communities and put some of the emotion the case has aroused into curtailing gun violence.
"We should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to stem the tide of gun violence that claims too many lives across this country on a daily basis," he said. "We should ask ourselves, as individuals and as a society, how we can prevent future tragedies like this."
"That's the way to honour TrayvonMartin," he added.
Critics contend that Zimmerman wrongly suspected 17-year-old Martin of being a criminal because he was black, making it a civil rights issue, while gun rights supporters saw Zimmerman as a persecuted hero who was exercising his right to bear arms assured by the US constitution's second amendment.
Zimmerman's lawyers argued that he acted in self-defence on February 26 last year when he and Martin met inside a gated community in the central Florida town of Sanford. They accuse civil rights advocates of wrongly injecting the issue of race.
"It was such a shame. The whole case nearly destroyed George from day one. That they put a racism spin on this prosecution just hurt him very deeply," said John Donnelly, a close friend of Zimmerman who testified in the trial.
Zimmerman, 29, who is white and Hispanic, spotted Martin from his car and called the police, believing Martin to be acting suspiciously. The teenager, who was staying in the neighbourhood at the home of his father's fiance, was walking back from a shop where he had bought sweets and a soft drink.
Minutes later, after Zimmerman got out of his car, the two engaged in a fight that left Zimmerman with a bloody nose and head injuries.
The encounter ended when Zimmerman shot Martin once through the heart with a pistol.
