Guns: Illinois has become the last state in the union to allow citizens their full Second Amendment rights, and officials in the murder capital of America worry about the consequences of citizens defending themselves.
Illinois' legislature on Tuesday voted to let gun owners carry concealed weapons. The action followed a violent and bloody Fourth of July weekend in President Obama's hometown during which 74 people were shot and 12 were killed.
Permission for concealed carry in Illinois was prompted by a ruling late last year by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago. It found that Illinois' law, the most restrictive in the country, violated the Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. The court ultimately gave the state until July 9 to rewrite it. 
Illinois had the most restrictive gun laws in the nation. Still, the carnage in some neighborhoods of Chicago made it safer to walk the streets of Kabul, Afghanistan. Local officials, such as Mayor and former White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel, blame guns coming in from outside the city. Yet crime rates in the suburbs and downstate have been lower.
Murders in Chicago are down from 500-plus in 2012, but the pace is still averaging one a day. City officials who place blame elsewhere do not explain why Chicago's murder rate of 15.65 per 100,000 people looks nothing like America's overall 4.2, the Midwest's 4.5 or Illinois' 5.6.
With a jobless rate over 10% in a city that has lost population and business, and where the majority of inner-city births are to single mothers, opportunities for young black males, other than joining a street gang, are scarce. While city fathers blame guns, the fact is that up to 80% of Chicago's murders and shootings are gang-related, according to police.
By one estimate, the city has 68,000 gang members, four times the number of cops. A police audit last spring identified 59 gangs and 625 factions -- mostly on the south and west sides -- none of which is going to submit to efforts like universal background checks.
The law as approved by the legislature permits anyone with a firearm owner's identification card who has, unlike gang-bangers, passed a background check and undergone 16 hours of gun-safety training -- longest of any state -- to obtain a concealed-carry permit for $150.
Police expect up to 300,000 applications in the first year as Illinois and Chicago citizens seek to exercise their Second Amendment right to self-defense.
WBBM Newsradio's Bernie Tafoya reports that Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy says the concealed-carry law is fraught with problems.
"You say concealed carry, I say Trayvon Martin, and look at the results there," McCarthy said, referring to the shooting death of a Florida teen last year by George Zimmerman, a member of the community watch where the shooting took place.
The problem with this analysis is that, based on the evidence so far, the Martin shooting appears to be a case of self-defense by an armed citizen under assault and in fear for his life.
The fact is, crime rates and gun homicides have fallen off sharply since the 1990 s as concealed-carry laws spread nationwide.
Compared with 1993, the peak of U.S. gun homicides, the firearm homicide rate in 2010 was 49% lower. There were also fewer deaths while the nation's population grew -- a trend that's continued even as gun- ownership has soared.
We have seen no gunfights at the O.K. Corral among armed citizens, and the sites of mass shootings such as in Aurora, Colo., have one thing in common -- all occurred in gun-free zones not unlike Chicago.
Now let's see what happens to gun-crime rates in the city of Chicago and the state of Illinois when citizens are able to shoot back. Everywhere else, more guns have meant less crime.
