A crowd of hot, angry and bitterly divided demonstrators traded verbal jabs that at times degenerated into racial slurs outside the Seminole County Courthouse as jury deliberations in the George Zimmerman trial dragged Saturday.
Sheriff's deputies separated two men -- one black and one white -- before an impassioned argument could escalate in the football field-size "free-speech zone."
Jack Scott, a white man from Winter Springs, stood on the side of the lawn dedicated to supporters of George Zimmerman -- vastly outnumbered by black supporters of TrayvonMartin and his family -- yelling "Go get your welfare checks!" and "Go get some crack!" 
Scott's remarks enraged much of the crowd. An unidentified black man and Scott faced off before deputies intervened. They drew the men to different parts of the park and warned them that they would be forced to leave if deputies had to intervene again.
"You should take the opportunity to get to know black people instead of shooting them in the middle of the street in the middle of the night!" the black man yelled as he was being led away.
At the Goldsboro Welcome Center in the historically black neighborhood less than five miles from the courthouse, about a dozen people kept vigil in front of a television and hoped for a peaceful outcome.
"It's a time of release. It's a time of coming down. We've been waiting a year for this," said Francis Oliver, curator of the Goldsboro Historical Museum across the street who organized the "verdict watch."
In contrast to concerns about blacks erupting in riots in the event Zimmerman is acquitted in Martin's death, Oliver said what she fears most is a guilty verdict. That could lead to more insidious retaliation than violence, such as employment problems or aggressive policing, she said.
Goldsboro -- where there is a memorial for Martin near the community center -- was incorporated as a city in 1891. Twenty years later, against the will of its residents, it was swallowed whole by the city of Sanford, whose white leaders ousted their black counterparts without compensation, Oliver said.
"It could undo everything we've done since 1911," she said.
Protesters and pastors from around the state gathered Saturday outside the courthouse, some promising nationwide protests if the neighborhood watch volunteer is not convicted of second-degree murder in last year's shooting death of Martin, 17, who was black and unarmed.
About a dozen organizers of last year's "March to Sanford -- Justice for Trayvon," which drew more than 30,000 protesters, chanted and held signs as a few Zimmerman supporters, also carrying signs, stood quietly to the side.
The Rev. L. Ronald Durham, pastor of the Greater Friendship Baptist Church in Daytona Beach, organized a rally last year in Sanford attended by Al Sharpton. Durham said he traveled from Daytona Beach to show his support for Martin's family.
"We need to let this jury speak. Once they have spoken, we will abide by whatever decision that is," said Durham, joined by two other members of the Daytona Beach Black Clergy Alliance. "We hope that it will be one that is justifiable to the family of TrayvonMartin. There needs to be accountability."
Sanford resident Adrienne Session arrived with her 17-year-old daughter at the courthouse before 10 a.m.
"It has you tense all the time," said Session, who is black. "We just want things to be normal. We are all praying for peace. I just feel in my heart that it won't be."
dkam@pbpost.com Twitter: @TheDaraKam
