HUNDREDS OF peaceful protesters marched around City Hall yesterday to voice their disappointment and call for justice for slain Florida teen TrayvonMartin the day after George Zimmerman was acquitted in Martin's shooting death.
 The Center City gathering was one of several across the country in the hours following the controversial verdict. It also punctuated a day marked by reflection on the case, which reignited the national debate about racial profiling.
 "I was terrified. The first thing I did [after hearing the verdict] was kiss my kids," Northeast Philadelphia resident Alaya Burnett, 33, a mother of two sons, said in LOVE Park. 
 The crowd of mostly black protesters ranged from toddlers to the elderly. Many held signs and expressed frustration, if not shock, at the jury's decision.
 Antoinette Cottman, 46, was blunt about the dangers facing her son, who is black.
 "I realize my son is a target," said Cottman, a Germantown resident. She said that her son, Dante, 25, has been arrested twice for being in the wrong place at the wrong time or fitting the description of someone wanted by the police.
 Cottman was joined at the protest by her niece, Lateshia Burris, 35, and Burris' son, Kanard. A soft-spoken, skinny 14-year-old, Kanard bears a striking resemblance to Martin, except that Kanard has a dyed-blond streak in his hair. After hearing the verdict, he said he would think twice before going to certain areas.
 "If it's a busy neighborhood that is unfamiliar, I'll hold back," he said.
 Near the back of the crowd stood Paige Bordthauser, 31, a teacher on a business trip from Charlottesville, Va. When trying to describe her reaction to the verdict, she immediately teared up and took a moment before speaking.
 "I was really surprised and disappointed," said Bordthauser, who is white. "My fiance is black and we plan to start a family. That could have been him. If we had a son, that could have been it."
 At Bright Hope Baptist Church in North Philadelphia, Senior Pastor Kevin R. Johnson's sermon invoked the memory of the late William Gray III, the former congressman and Bright Hope pastor. Gray, who died July 1, was memorialized at the church on Saturday, but Johnson also weaved in references to the verdict, calling it a reminder of how far America has to go to get past the effects of Jim Crow.
 He also chided Florida State Attorney Angela Corey for appearing "relieved" in a post-verdict interview, adding that she would not have reacted that way if it were her child.
 "That's the problem, it's never been their child," Johnson shouted from the pulpit.
 Johnson said that after the verdict, his 12-year-old son said to his wife and him: "I don't understand. He was just a boy."
 "And for me, how do you help your child understand that it's a crime to be walking while black?" Johnson asked after the service.
 Several local elected officials also weighed in on the issue, with Mayor Nutter saying he was "deeply saddened" and strongly disagreed with the verdict.
 "A young black man is dead without any real explanation," Nutter said in a statement. "George Zimmerman took an innocent life. TrayvonMartin, who at trial was made to appear threatening when all he had was a bag of Skittles and an iced tea, should not have died at Zimmerman's hands, and I believe the jury should have exacted a penalty."
 He urged residents to remain calm and work toward preventing similar tragedies.
 "We need to resolve to make life better in America for all our children, regardless of skin color. Let us focus our anger and resolve to work toward a more just, safer and more caring America," the statement said.
 Philadelphia state Sen. Vincent Hughes took to Twitter on Saturday to voice his displeasure.
 "Heart's broken about the verdict," Hughes tweeted. "But we must maintain our focus & lift up the lives of our sons & clear the path 2 the future they deserve."
 "God bless Trayvon. God bless the Martin family," Hughes said in another tweet. "Be cool, folks and honor them with our prayers."
 The U.S. Justice Department said yesterday that its investigation is "ongoing." A spokesman said the department will consider evidence gathered during the federal probe, as well as evidence and testimony from the state trial, to determine if it "reveals a prosecutable violation" of civil-rights statutes.
 Many compared the case to landmark trials during the civil-rights movement, including the deaths of civil-rights activist Medgar Evers and Emmett Till, the 14-year-old whose murder in Mississippi in 1955 helped ignite the movement.
 "The signal and precedent that it sends is a tad bit frightening," City Councilman Curtis Jones said of the verdict. "I understand the principle of 'stand your ground,' but if you take it literally it means stand, don't go pursuing people where you're almost looking for trouble."
 Philly state Sen. Anthony Hardy Williams Jr. said the Martin family's response and peaceful protests reflected "a generation that wants to release its reaction in a constructive way."
 "We'll see if this case is what vaults us forward similar to Emmett Till," Williams said.
 - The Associated Press contributed to this report.
@ChroniclesofSol
