July 15--George Zimmerman's acquittal produced mixed reactions from Monroe County residents Sunday.
Zimmerman supporters were somewhat muted in their response while those who believed that the community watch member murdered TrayvonMartin were in disbelief and expressed a lack of confidence in the justice system. 
"Everybody from my congregation in New York to my friends in California, this hit us like a tsunami wave. It hit everybody," Tonyeaka Grant of Saylorsburg said. "My friends were in tears. Some of them couldn't even breathe."
Bob Counterman of Price Township said he was surprised by the verdict.
"He really should have gotten second-degree murder. That's as prejudiced as prejudice gets," Counterman said.
Grant said she may have supported some kind of lower-level conviction against Zimmerman given the uncertainty about the fight between the two men, but she couldn't stand for him walking free after killing an unarmed Martin.
"I wouldn't have cared if he would have gotten hit with jail time for two years. Put him in there for something. He had a loaded weapon. TrayvonMartin had nothing," Grant said.
Cheryl Wilson of Canadensis said the case was the latest example of racial prejudice affecting the criminal justice system, and that the evidence proved Zimmerman was guilty.
"The police told Zimmerman not to pursue Trayvon. Based on that alone, Zimmerman broke the law. He disobeyed the police and pursued Trayvon anyway, even though he was not a threat to him," Wilson said.
Keith Hudson of Tannersville said Martin posed no real threat to Zimmerman, so the self-defense story is irrelevant.
"You think the use of deadly force might be appropriate. But in reality, it's never appropriate because it's not like his life was being threatened," Hudson said.
Wanda Lasher of Stroudsburg said watching the case on TV actually convinced her that Zimmerman could be found not guilty.
"Following the case changed my perspective. Initially, I was on the borderline, but as the evidence was brought forward, I figured the acquittal was there," she said.
Marcy Schock of Bangor said she wasn't very passionate one way or the other, but felt that Florida prosecutors could have made a better case against Zimmerman.
"I think one of the reasons it came out the way it was was that the prosecution could have done better," Schock said.
Lindsey Jones of Stroudsburg compared the case to another Florida incident, in which a woman named Marissa Alexander was convicted despite using the same "stand your ground" defense Zimmerman did.
"I think Florida needs to get their act together. It's not even," Jones said. "They need to have consistency."
___ (c)2013 the Pocono Record, Stroudsburg, Pa. Visit the Pocono Record, Stroudsburg, Pa. at http://www.poconorecord.com/ Distributed by MCT Information Services
