WASHINGTON (CIHAN)- Americans angry at the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the death of black teen TrayvonMartin marched in US cities overnight, with reports Sunday of sporadic violence. Spontaneous marches of varying sizes took place in cities including San Francisco, Chicago, Washington, Atlanta and Philadelphia.   
A jury in Sanford, Florida late Saturday found Zimmerman, a volunteer neighborhood watchman, not guilty in the death of Martin. The defense had argued that Zimmerman shot dead the 17-year-old in self-defense on February 26, 2012 during a confrontation in which the teen wrestled him to the ground and bashed his head against the pavement. Prosecutors argued Zimmerman had racially profiled Martin and stalked the teen -- who was unarmed and had no criminal record -- despite being told by a police dispatcher not to follow him. Zimmerman, who said Martin attacked him, is the only living witness to how the altercation in the gated community in Sanford began. The trial has riveted the nation for weeks, and emotions came to a boiling point as news of the verdict spread. Prominent rights activists like Jesse Jackson appealed for calm. "Avoid violence, it will lead to more tragedies. Find a way for self construction not deconstruction in this time of despair," he wrote on Twitter. Martin's parents had called for non-violent demonstrations, quoting civil rights icon Martin Luther King and the Bible. Several hundred demonstrators marched peacefully amid a heavy police presence in downtown San Francisco soon after the verdict.  Many carried signs with slogans such as "The people say guilty." Hours later, angry protesters marching through Oakland -- just across the bay from San Francisco -- spray-painted cars and smashed windows, helicopter video footage posted by the Oakland Tribune showed.  One vandalized vehicle was a police cruiser. In Chicago, to the cry of "No justice, no peace! No racist police!" a crowd of activists held a noisy downtown rally, the Chicago Tribune reported, while protesters also gathered in Times Square in New York City to vent their anger. In Los Angeles, some 200 demonstrators gathered at a protest overnight, while Washington, DC saw dozens of mostly African-American youths marching and chanting slogans in at least one neighborhood. A crowd of several hundred people gathered all day Saturday outside the courthouse in Sanford, Florida -- and many were outraged when the verdict was read.  
"It's the end of our justice system," said Ashton Summer, a 20-year-old Puerto Rican. "Justice is not equal for everyone." The ANSWER coalition, which helped organize large protest rallies during the Iraq war, said it would hold marches Sunday in seven US cities, as well as three separate ones in New York. "We are very saddened by the jury's verdict," said Martin family attorney Benjamin Crump after the verdict was read. "The family is heartbroken." Rights activist Al Sharpton posted a statement on Facebook describing Zimmerman's acquittal as "a slap in the face to the American people." He said he would ask US officials to consider filing federal civil rights charges against Zimmerman Benjamin Todd Jealous, head of the NAACP, the premier US civil rights group, said his organization was "outraged and heartbroken" over the verdict. Several US celebrities also weighed in expressing outrage. "Enough. For now," Hollywood actress Mia Farrow tweeted. "May God bless Trayvon's family and grant them strength." Rapper Lil Wayne tweeted after a concert Saturday that he "kame bak to my bus and saw da news... I pray 4my kids & yours." Pop diva Rihanna wrote on Twitter after the verdict: "This is the saddest news ever!!!" But Zimmerman's brother Robert told CNN late Saturday that the six all female jurors got the verdict right. "The jury found he acted appropriately in defending his life in accordance with the law," George's brother Robert Zimmerman Jr. said on CNN.  "I think that conjecture and speculation and emotional reaction to what people think may or may not have happened has been dominating the discussion for a long time." ch-pb-bur/sg/jk Soundbites - Dopesheet SHOTLIST: IMAGES OF PROTESTS IN VARIOUS US CITIES: SOURCE: CBS *RESTRICTIONS: NO RESALE for non-editorial purposes No Japan No Free over-the-air broadcasters in Australia  No US cable news outlets, free over the air networks or stations, their websites and their mobile phone services ** -VAR blocked freeway July 14, 2013, Los Angeles , CA  -VAR protests, night of 14-15 July 2013, Los Angeles, CA  -VAR protests, Times Square, New York, night of 14 to 15  -VAR protests, Philadelphia, PA, July 14, 2013  -VAR protests and police, Los Angeles July 15, 2013 -VAR aerials, Oakland, July 14, 2013 DURATION: 03:27  CIHAN
