HERE WAS THE beginning of the end of TrayvonMartin's life, Feb. 26, 2012, George Zimmerman - an overheated pretend cop with a very real gun - making a call to the dispatcher at the Sanford, Fla., Police Department:
Zimmerman: "Hey, we've had some break-ins in my neighborhood, and there's a real suspicious guy, uh, Retreat View Circle. . . . This guy looks like he's up to no good, or he's on drugs or something." 
Dispatcher: "Okay, and this guy is he white, black or Hispanic?"
Zimmerman: "He looks black."
Dispatcher: "Did you see what he was wearing?"
Zimmerman: "Yeah, a dark hoodie, like a gray hoodie, and either jeans or sweatpants and white tennis shoes. He was just staring . . ."
Later on in the call Zimmerman said: "Something's wrong with him. Yup, he's coming to check me out, he's got something in his hands. I don't know what the deal is."
Later still, George Zimmerman was asked by the dispatcher whether he was following TrayvonMartin: Teenager, black, hoodie, the "something" in his hands was a bag of Skittles and a can of Arizona Iced Tea.
Zimmerman: "Yeah (I'm following him)."
Dispatcher: "Okay, we don't need you to do that."
Zimmerman: "Okay."
You know about the rest of the story, one about another senseless gun death in America, one that has played out to a Florida courtroom, all the way to the closing arguments in a case that finally saw Zimmerman charged with second-degree murder. On Thursday Judge Debra Nelson allowed the jury to consider a lesser charge of manslaughter against Zimmerman, which may increase the prosecution's chance of getting a conviction, after the whole thing seemed to be going against them.
Prosecutors also tried to include the possibility of third-degree murder, arguing that Zimmerman had committed child abuse by shooting and killing an underage teen. Defense attorney Don West called that a trick, the judge rejected the argument, but not before saying this to West:
"I don't want to hear the trick anymore."
Maybe the real trick in this trial was defense attorneys trying to convince the jury and the world that Zimmerman was the victim here. But he was the one with the gun, and the one still around. TrayvonMartin, who wasn't carrying a weapon even though Zimmerman clearly thought he was, is gone. Gun wins, he dies, at 17.
Only nobody dies at Retreat View Circle if Zimmerman had done what the dispatcher asked him to do and just walked away. But he didn't. There had been those previous break-ins and now Zimmerman - thinking he was the law, made brave by a gun - had decided in the night and in the rain that the black kid in the hoodie was a threat; Zimmerman apparently working off all the experience gained in all of his fantasies about being in law enforcement.
The idea that an acquittal in this case means that Zimmerman is innocent, or the kind of right-wing vigilante hero that people wanted Bernhard Goetz to be on a New York subway once, means you think TrayvonMartin somehow deserved to die for the crime of looking suspicious to a dumb, overheated amateur.
Goetz thought he was about to be robbed by four black guys and turned out to have a gun on him and started shooting, paralyzing one of them, Darrell Cabey. Cabey would tell Jimmy Breslin, for a column in this newspaper, that he and the guys with him thought that Goetz was "easy bait."
We are never going to know who ended up on top in the fight between Zimmerman and Martin, clearly we are never going to know whose voice was doing the screaming on a later 911 call placed to the Sanford dispatcher. And no one would ever say that the prosecution has made its case against Zimmerman, especially in a state like Florida where you can absolutely can get away with murder if able to prove that you felt threatened, because of the state's dim-bulb stand-your-ground law.
In the end the members of the jury will decide on the merits of the case they have been presented, a case that was all about race from its first moments, even though nobody wanted to talk about that very much in the courtroom. Certainly not Zimmerman himself, who elected not to take the stand in his own defense, feeling he had proved that he was only defending himself against TrayvonMartin.
If Zimmerman walks on this, it means the facts never changed after that night in Sanford, Fla.
Gun won, TrayvonMartin lost.
"Who started this, who followed who?" prosecutor Bernie de la Rionda said in his closing argument. "And who was armed?"
De la Rionda is right, of course, it is the whole ballgame. Who really was the "bait" that night at Retreat View Circle before Zimmerman's gun went off - the 17-year-old black kid in the hoodie or the guy with the gun who said this to the dispatcher during his call to 911:
"These a------es always get away."
Sometimes they get away with murder.
