Zimmerman verdict has many edgy, they say
- A group of black Hillsborough County elected officials pleaded with their constituents Friday to maintain calm no matter what verdict is decided in George Zimmerman's trial.
Zimmerman, 29, is charged with second-degree murder in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teenager who was visiting his father in a gated community in Sanford. Zimmerman, who identifies himself as Hispanic, says he shot Martin in self-defense because the teenager was beating him and he feared for his life.
The trial's racial overtones have made it a sensation far beyond Sanford, a small community near Orlando where the trial is being held. Judge Debra Nelson gave the jury final instructions Friday afternoon before they began deliberations. 
In Hillsborough County, where the trial is being followed closely in African-American neighborhoods, black leaders are worried about the prospect for unrest, even riots, should Zimmerman be found not guilty. 
Regardless of what happens, if the verdict comes back in any way that a segment of this community feels that it should not have gone that way ... we ask for calm and peace, Hillsborough County Commissioner Les Miller said at the afternoon news conference.
 No violence, no turmoil, no destroying property in the community, Miller added.
The other black officials attending the conference shared much the same message. State Rep. Betty Reed, a Tampa Democrat, pointed out that Martin's family had also urged black Americans to be peaceful, whatever the verdict.
We should respect their wishes, Reed said.
The officials said they felt compelled to hold the news conference because constituents in their districts are also worried about the potential for violence, especially among restive youths.
It's a long, hot summer and our young people are out of school, said county school board member Dorothea Edgecomb, and sometimes having nothing to do can make them stray to doing things that are unacceptable or maybe spontaneous.
Miller said the racial overtones of the Zimmerman-Martin case could create an atmosphere similar to 1967 when black neighborhoods were torn by riots after a white police officer shot an unarmed black man. 
He cited what he called some of the ugliest comments he has seen in readers' reactions posted on a story at the Tribune's TBO.com  website about potential unrest among blacks if Zimmerman is cleared.
You would think after 1967 we wouldn't be in this position, but we are, Miller said.
The Tribune story cited reports that Gov. Rick Scott had been in contact with law enforcement agencies across the state asking them to be prepared for whatever happens.  Police in Sarasota, Sanford and South Florida have appealed for calm through news conferences and social media.
City Councilman Frank Reddick said his office had shared the officials' concerns with Tampa Police Chief Jane Castor, who is out of town. Castor was aware the officials planned to have a news conference to address the matter, Reddick said.
She is trying to get back in town this moment because a verdict can be rendered anytime this weekend, Reddick said.
Rather than riots, the officials said they hoped the Zimmerman trial will be used as a learning experience.
This is an opportunity for this community to come together as a people, Miller said, regardless of race, creed, color, national origin, religion or sexual orientation, to start discussions so we can make sure these types of incidents don't happen again.
Edgecomb added that her hope and prayer is that the verdict will demonstrate justice, equality, objectivity and fairness at their best.
