Florida authorities were bracing themselves for disturbances as the trial of a Neighbourhood Watch volunteer who shot dead an unarmed black teenager drew towards its conclusion yesterday.
George Zimmerman's lawyer implored the all-female jury to acquit his client, assuring them that he had acted in self defence when he killed TrayvonMartin. "You want to take away somebody's liberty? They've got to prove their case. The burden is on the state," said Mr Zimmerman's lawyer Mark O'Mara.
The prosecution has characterised Mr Zimmerman, 29, as an overzealous vigilante who was "guilty of making assumptions" about Trayvon, 17, based on his looks. If Mr Zimmerman felt suspicious enough to follow him, he could have challenged him verbally, but he did not. "Why? Because he's got a gun, he has the equaliser, he's gonna take care of it, he's a wannabe cop," said the lead prosecutor, Bernie de la Rionda. 
The case has become a flashpoint for America's civil rights movement after the Sanford Police Department refused to arrest or charge Mr Zimmerman, accepting his claim that he had shot him in self defence.
On February 26, 2012, Trayvon was walking to his father's house after a trip to a local shop to buy Skittles and a drink but he was followed by Mr Zimmerman, resulting in a fatal fight.
Only after Rick Scott, the Governor of Florida, appointed a special prosecutor, amid a national outcry and comments from President Obama that the nation needed to treat the case "with the seriousness it deserves" and that "if I had a son he would look like Trayvon", was it decided that the case should be judged by a jury.
However, no evidence emerged that Mr Zimmerman, who is of mixed white and Hispanic heritage, was driven by racism and the state has struggled to prove that he killed out of ill will, hatred or spite - criteria required for a second-degree murder conviction.
Mr O'Mara said the notion that Mr Martin was an "unarmed teenager with nothing but Skittles" was wrong. Trayvon used the concrete sidewalk as a weapon on which to pound Mr Zimmerman's head and his fists to punch him, he said.
Police in Miami, where Trayvon lived with his mother, have in recent days been practising riot control techniques but claim that it was just a routine exercise. Officers pointed out, however, that it is the first time in two years that there has been such an exercise.
Jurors took notes as they were played a brief animation depicting what Mr Zimmerman says happened that night and what certain witnesses said they saw.
The video showed a hooded figure, Trayvon, straddling Mr Zimmerman on the ground but then, after the fatal shot, Mr Zimmerman straddling Trayvon.
Mr Zimmerman was seen on top by one resident who gave evidence for the prosecution but that scenario occurred after the shooting, said Mr O'Mara, as the gunman clambered out from underneath the body. "What you have to do is be absolutely vigilant, diligent, in looking at this case," Mr O'Mara told the jury.
Mr Zimmerman has pleaded not guilty to second-degree murder, a charge that carries a life sentence. Jurors will also consider an alternative charge of manslaughter, which carries a sentence of up to 30 years, when they are handed the case this afternoon.
