All the "Whose voice was on the 911 tape?" and other items the defense is throwing at the jury -- including the latest "Reefer Madness" gambit -- are just smoke and mirrors.
Simply: George Zimmerman was told by the 911 dispatcher not to approach TrayvonMartin, but he did. If George Zimmerman picked a fight and then started to lose that fight, it wasn't TrayvonMartin's fault. TrayvonMartin knew that he was being followed and he was creeped out. But he wasn't doing anything but returning home. He had a right to be in the complex. He was visiting with his father after making a run to the store.
There are enough inconsistencies in George Zimmerman's stories that there should be plenty of doubts about him planted in the minds of the jurors -- all are in the interviews he gave the media and follow-up sessions Zimmerman had with the police. Anyone care anymore that when this process began Zimmerman lied to the court about how much money he had available for bail? Begin there, and sift forward.
CURT SALKE 
Palm Beach Gardens
Was Zimmerman right to pursue?
The defense is trying to prove that the scream on the police call is that of George Zimmerman. That's a great strategy -- muddy the water and claim that George was the one who was in need of assistance.
Regardless of how the jury considers this part of the trial, the real question is: Did George have the right to go after TrayvonMartin, kill him and then declare it was self-defense?
From my perspective, this is similar to the child who kills both his parents and then asks the court to show mercy since the child is now an orphan.
IRA GROSS
Boca Raton
Voice-print tech is not junk science
The key to the George Zimmerman trial is the screams recorded on a 911 call by a neighbor. The question is whose screams they are? The prosecution wanted to admit two experts on voice-print technology to prove that the screams came from TrayvonMartin. The defense objected claiming that this is junk science and the judge agreed.
However, if you Google voice-print technology you can see that this is not junk science. It is established technology that has been in use for 50 years. This evidence has been successfully used in thousands of court cases and accepted by the higher courts on appeals. Indeed, it is part of a billion-dollar industry including voice recognition technology.
What are voice prints? Everybody's voice is like a fingerprint because it is made up of the shape of your throat, nose, voice box and breathing. The defense in this trial claims that it could not identify the screams on the 911 tape. The judge should have ordered Zimmerman to be examined by experts who would identify his voice print and then match it up with the screams on the tape. Yet this judge refused to allow Mr. Zimmerman to be examined. Why?
MICHAEL COHEN
West Palm Beach
Zimmerman trial a waste of money
The TrayvonMartin case has turned into one big joke. The judge in this case is far from impartial. She is looking for a conviction, as shown by her refusal of acquittal.
The defense quoted many similar cases which resulted in acquittal. I believe she wants a conviction so the case will be overturned in a higher court. This will eliminate the chance of demonstrations outside the courthouse, and her hands will be cleaned of any bias. The state has failed to show second-degree murder, and now we are just wasting taxpayer money.
SIL CARIOTI
Boca Raton
GOP clearly puts
party before people
Pardon my liberal cynicism, but it seems that there is a group of GOP operatives whose main function is to constantly dig up dirt that they can lay at the feet of President Barack Obama and his administration.
They are much like the gang that assembled on inauguration night in 2009 to prepare an agenda to prevent the new Democratic president from getting any positive work done in his first four years and prevent him from achieving a second term at all costs.
In the gubernatorial and state races in 2010, many states followed a typical political cycle and went Republican. That allowed for the gerrymandering of congressional districts and the opportunity to enact the voter obstruction and union-busting measures to ensure that the GOP majority in the House of Representatives could block any constructive legislation that President Obama and his administration could hope to get passed for the benefit of the American people.
Party before constituents! What a country.
JOE HEALEY
Palm Beach Gardens
Good Samaritans
can still be found
The traffic was light as I headed home from work on Interstate 95, and I was zipping along when I heard a pop. When I pulled off, my left rear tire was as flat as a pancake. I called my husband for help, but it would take him at least a half-hour to reach me.
So I put on my flashers, got out of the car, put my trunk up and waited. Up ahead I saw a truck pull off to the side and back up. A man got out and kindly asked if I needed help. I told him that help was, indeed, on the way. He said, "If you were my wife, I would want someone to help her, too. It will take me 5 minutes and when your husband comes, you can both be on your way."
Well, in a jiff the tire was changed and my husband pulled up as the last lug nut was being tightened.
The point of this letter is to remind us all that there are wonderful, beautiful people out there just like Darrell. It's just that we don't hear about them often enough.
LOUISE HELKOWSKI
Tequesta
Koch money could save the planet
I find myself wishing that the Koch brothers of Palm Beach, who obviously have plenty of smarts and even more money, instead of attempting to buy many newspapers in order to advance their plan of destroying President Barack Obama and to advance corporate greed, would instead use these smarts and money to become the fathers of a Marshall Plan for the environment.
Among serious threats to our planet is our energy policy that allows putting carbon dioxide into the climate system for millennia. Wouldn't you, the Koch brothers, rather be known far into the future as saviors of the planet? Your legacy right now is more likely to be ignominy.
SHIRLEY SPAETH
Juno Beach
Religious leaders spur Mideast hate
The only way we might reach peace in the Middle East is if the religious teachers, who are the origin of the problems, stop teaching hate. If you review the history of the worst problem on this Earth, you will find religious leaders teaching and preaching hate for minorities.
In Israel, peace is taught and preached by all but their neighbors, who continue to instill hate for Jews -- including not showing Israel on maps; so, is it not logical that these kids will grow up feeling close to jihadists?
A. WAINBERG
Jupiter
VerSteeg column wasn't about Deen
I started reading Jac Wilder VerSteeg's column, "Did restrictions target blacks or Democrats?" because it contained a photo of Paula Deen and thought he decided to do a commentary on the facts surrounding Paula Deen's recent travels through her choice of words in the past.
But it had nothing to do with Paula Deen but everything to do with his efforts in trying to make this a political football yet again. He went through his Southern upbringing, which was irrelevant, and eventually landed on a Republican/Democrat kickball game of voting in Florida. None of which had anything to do with Paula Deen. Let's not use headlines to create a story when there isn't one.
HELEN BUFFARDI
West Palm Beach
Chihuahua fan's question answered
Two letters printed in Tuesday's Post provided the unique scenario of one letter solving the quandary of another writer. One letter writer flatly states that dogs are family, while another questioned, "Can I marry my pet Chihuahua, and is that allowed by the same laws that LGBT people are afforded?"
No, you cannot marry your Chihuahua as that would be incest, and incest is against the law.
JERRY UTTER
Lake Worth
