Several potential jurors in the George Zimmerman case were dismissed when lawyers discovered Facebook posts and "likes" that revealed their personal views on the case.
SANFORD, FLA. - Even Scott Pleasants, a college professor testifying by Skype in the murder trial of one of his former students, couldn't keep a straight face when the sounds of incoming calls derailed the testimony.
His head, projected on a big screen in the courtroom, was soon completely obscured by the pop-up requests of incoming callers. Tech-savvy pranksters watching the George Zimmerman trial on live television bombarded Pleasants' Skype account July 3 while he tried to answer defense attorney Mark O'Mara's questions via Internet video chat. 
Despite the seriousness of the proceedings - Zimmerman, Pleasants' former criminal-justice student, faced life in prison for the killing of TrayvonMartin - the professor and courtroom observers were suppressing laughter, the presiding judge was annoyed, and only O'Mara seemed to have a clue about what was going on.
"I gotta tell you," O'Mara said. "There's now a really good chance that we're being toyed with. Just so you know."
The Skype incident - Pleas-ants finished his testimony through an iPhone propped on the witness stand - encapsulated the way technology and social media played into every twist and turn of the Zimmerman trial.
Although the trial was nationally televised gavel-to-gavel, something Americans have grown accustomed to since the O.J. Simpson double-murder trial almost 20 years ago and most recently the Jodi Arias case, many thousands took to Twitter, Facebook and blogs to opine, vent and bicker about the case.
"The case touched so many chords, it became a contemporary media event as people tuned in to find out if their view of reality would be affirmed," said Darnell Hunt, a sociology professor and director of the Ralph J. Bunche Center for African-American Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles. "The advances in social media and technology made it possible for people to follow the case but also debate it.
"Once a story goes viral, it takes on a life of its own," Hunt said.
The web's fascination with the Zimmerman case started soon after the former neighborhood-watch leader fatally shot Martin, 17, of Miami Gardens in February 2012.
Martin's parents, Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, quickly turned to the Internet, creating a change.org petition to demand the arrest of Zimmerman. The movement garnered more than 2.2 million virtual signatures. The public outcry seemed to work: Zimmerman was arrested 44 days after the shooting.
As details of the case circulated - an unarmed teen shot dead while carrying a bag of Skittles and an Arizona drink - the hooded sweatshirt that Martin wore became iconic, with scores posting, sharing and tweeting photos of themselves wearing similar garments.
Miami Heat's Lebron James and Dwyane Wade famously posted pictures of themselves and the team donning hoodies in support of Martin. Others used photos of Martin as their Facebook and Twitter avatars, often with the words "Justice for Trayvon" across the images. As the trial neared an end Friday, thousands changed their online photos to black, using the hashtag #blackout in a sign of TrayvonMartin solidarity.
Zimmerman and his legal team also turned to the Web to rally their backers. Zimmerman created a website, the Real George Zimmerman, in which he made his claim of self-defense, quoted historical figures and included a prompt for contributions. The site is inactive.
But O'Mara, Zimmerman's lead counsel, launched another one, gzlegalcase.com, in April 2012, dedicated to raising funds for the legal defense, releasing documents and updates on the case, and acting as a voice for Zimmerman. The site was an uncommon move in criminal trials, but Zimmerman's team said it generated large amounts of traffic and donations and could be the new-normal in such cases.
University of Miami School of Law lecturer Jan L. Jacobowitz said attorneys must use the social-media tools at their disposal to effectively represent their clients.
"The George Zimmerman trial highlights the new normal, how social media and technology have become part of cases," said Jacobowitz, director of the law school's Professional Responsibility and Ethics Program. "The digital age has changed the way law is practiced in some ways."
