The Rev. L. Ronald Durham, president of the Daytona Beach Black Clergy Alliance, said he and several other pastors will go to Sanford on Saturday morning to await the verdict and support Trayvon Martin's family. 
"We felt it was important to show the family our support for what they've gone through and what they've had to endure over the last year," said Durham, senior pastor of the Greater Friendship Baptist Church. "It is certainly our hope that the outcome will be one that demonstrates that there was a righteous outcome to this terrible tragedy."
Durham said the Rev. Al Sharpton also plans on going to Sanford once the verdict is reached.
"He has been part of the support for the family since the incident first happened over a year ago, and he promised then, to the family, that he would stay with this case until there was a resolution," said Durham, who's also vice president of the Florida Baptist Convention.
Durham said he and other pastors in the Black Clergy Alliance have asked their church members for calm no matter what verdict the jury reaches.
Other local leaders also have asked for peace in the community.
"We're asking for calm, and we've always asked for calm," Volusia County-Daytona Beach NAACP President Cynthia Slater said.
Slater said she is more concerned about the potential reaction from Zimmerman's supporters if he is found guilty.
"Who's asking them what's going to happen if the verdict is not in their favor or not what they expect?" Slater said.
Volusia County Sheriff's Office spokesman Brandon Haught said the Sheriff's Office has been in contact with local law enforcement near the trial and is ready to assist if the situation warrants their involvement.
Durham added that everyone needs to let the justice system decide.
"It is my hope that this family, that both families, can come through whatever the decision the jury makes recognizing that the justice system that we have is the best in the world," Durham said. "And whatever the outcome may be, we are calling for everyone to remain level-headed, calm and recognize that the court system is the way everyone wanted this to end, that the decision not be made by anyone but our judicial system."
