OAKLAND -- As downtown property owners cleaned up storefronts damaged in a chaotic overnight protest, organizers are planning afternoon demonstrations in Oakland and San Francisco to condemn the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the shooting death of TrayvonMartin.
Protests are planned at 3 p.m. in East Oakland at 73rd Avenue and International Boulevard and 4 p.m. at 14th Street and Broadway in Oakland and Powell and Market streets in San Francisco. They are part of protests nationwide, with rallies also planned Sunday in Florida, Philadelphia, New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Fresno and Cleveland.
"We are all Trayvon," said Reiko Redmonde, who is organizing the Bay Area protests. "This is not just a question for black youth but for all peoples' humanity, a questions of what kind of society and what of world we want to live in."
The demonstrations come after a march that began Saturday, hours after a jury acquitted Zimmerman in a Florida courtroom. At 12:30 a.m. Sunday, protesters knocked trash cans into the street and sometimes set the contents alight, creating small fires amid cheers from onlookers. One man was being beaten by a multiple attackers in a Broadway doorway near Frank Ogawa Plaza until other protesters surrounded the skirmish and yelled at the combatants to stop. The man was helped to his feet and did not appear to be seriously injured.
Around 12:45 a.m., demonstrators remained in the area around 19th and Telegraph but numbers had significantly diminished. Some shouted that police were trying to "kettle" them, or corral them into a limited area.
No one was arrested.
On Sunday morning, property owners were boarding up storefronts and cleaning graffiti, but broken glass remained on sidewalks along Telegraph Avenue and Broadway, the two thoroughfares that bore the brunt of the vandalism. Among the businesses damaged were Sears, the Oakland Tribune, and Flora, a restaurant on the 1900 block of Telegraph Avenue that was nevertheless busy during the lunch hour Sunday.
In a statement, Oakland Mayor Jean Quan said, "a small group of people gathered in downtown Oakland last night. Sadly, some of them dishonored the memory of Trayvon by engaging in violent activities that hurt our growing economy and endangered people. This is unacceptable as well. We will not tolerate violence in our city. We must come together to heal and move forward. In the days and weeks ahead our community will continue working to learn from this tragedy and to prevent this from ever happening again."
David DeBolt covers breaking news. Contact him atddebolt@bayareanewsgroup.com . Follow him atTwitter.com/daviddebolt .
