CITIES across America were braced for race riots last night after a vigilante who shot dead an unarmed black teenager was cleared of murder.
George Zimmerman, 29, went into hiding yesterday after being branded a "dead man walking" for killing TrayvonMartin, 17. 
The verdict sparked protests around the US. In Oakland, California, gangs of youths attacked cops and tried to set cars on fire while others smashed windows. There were also disturbances in Harlem in New York and Los Angeles.
Police swamped the town of Sanford, Florida, where the trial took place. The gated estate where Trayvon was shot was barricaded off.
Officers had special measures in place to prevent youths forming flash mobs - after learning from the London riots in 2011 when gangs used social media to organise themselves.
President Barack Obama called for calm while pop star Beyonce held a minute's silence for Trayvon at a concert in Tennessee. The death of the teenager in February 2012 exposed the fragile race relations that exist in the US.
Zimmerman was said to have "racially profiled" the teenager after finding him in the gated community where he was a neighbourhood watch volunteer.
Trayvon was visiting from Miami, where he lived with his mother. Zimmerman called police to report suspicious activity and followed the youngster in his car.
The two men got into a struggle and Trayvon was shot in the chest.
The death was initially ruled to be justified under Florida's controversial "stand your ground" law, which allows the use of deadly force if a person fears for their life.
But after protests across the US and President Obama saying if he had a son "he'd have looked like Martin", Zimmerman was charged with murder.
During a three-week trial which gripped America, prosecutors portrayed Zimmerman as a liar and a "wannabe cop". The case was seen to have fallen apart after witnesses backed Zimmerman's claim that he was attacked. The allwhite female jury took 16 hours to acquit him.
r.parry@the-sun.co.uk
