The people chasing the stories become the story in Season 2 of HBO's The Newsroom (Sunday, 10 p.m. ET/PT).
Instead of asking the questions,  news anchor Will McAvoy (Jeff Daniels) is answering them as the season opens. A lawyer (Marcia Gay Harden) is doing the probing as the cable network faces a massive lawsuit for reporting -- then retracting -- a story alleging the use of chemical weapons by the Obama administration.
Going from hunter to target is not a comfortable position for the news team. "In the first season, we were going after the Tea Party, what has kind of divided the Republican Party," Daniels says.  "This is more about an incident that happens to us. Journalistically, we follow ... a very, very wrong path." 
The season-long arc following the reporting of a story known as Operation Genoa is a major structural change from the first season of the drama, which follows the personal and professional lives of a team of cable television journalists.
Series creator Aaron Sorkin found the high-stakes story he was looking for when consultants brought up CNN's 1998 Tailwind fiasco, in which the network retracted a story alleging that the U.S. military used nerve gas against American defectors in Laos during the Vietnam War.
"There was a problem with the story. People got fired and people had to resign," says Sorkin, who created The West Wing and won an Oscar for writing The Social Network.  "I needed to update it and fictionalize it."
As the Genoa story unwinds, The Newsroom will continue examining real news events from the recent past. The opener picks up in August 2011, just a week after the first-season finale, and runs through election night in 2012.
The Newsroom will look at such stories as Occupy Wall Street, the Trayvon Martin killing and the Benghazi consulate attack. And the show explores the political campaign when senior producer Jim Harper (John Gallagher Jr.) decides to ride the Romney campaign bus  to avoid an awkward situation with unattainable colleague Maggie Jordan (Alison Pill).
But drones and anti-terrorism policy take center stage during the season.
Will, who had a crisis of confidence in Season 1, "begins to take on the role of (being) the big shoulders in the office," Sorkin says. And he must face fallout after referring to the Tea Party as the American Taliban. "To me, the more interesting point of friction today isn't between the right and the left, it's between the right and the far right," Sorkin says.
Will also continues his push and pull with executive producer and former lover Mackenzie McHale (Emily Mortimer), who had cheated on him when they were involved. "They absolutely love each other and can't stand each other. Just when you think this might happen, somebody says the wrong thing, and then we're in the middle of the civil war again," Daniels says.
The Newsroom itself was a target during its first season. The much-talked-about series drew praise but also criticism: Some saw it as too preachy or liberal, while others complained that it depicted female characters as less than serious, especially in their personal lives.
"I knew it was going to be loved and hated, just because we were being political," Daniels says.
But Sorkin sees the show as an advocate for  what journalism can be.
"It is a romanticized and idealized version, just like The West Wing was (about) people who work in the White House," he says. The Newsroom "is journalists as cowboys in white hats." 
