One of the jurors who served on the George Zimmerman trial toldCNN's Anderson Cooper Monday that she believes he feared for his life during his confrontation with TrayvonMartin.
Speaking on condition of anonymity, the woman said she believes that Martin threw the first punch in their confrontation, which ultimately left Martin dead. (Zimmerman was acquitted of killing the Florida teenager.)
STORY: Beyonce Honors TrayvonMartin With Moment of Silence at Concert
"Zimmerman is a man whose heart was in the right place but just got displaced with vandalism in the neighborhoods and wanting to catch these people so badly that he went above and beyond what he really should have done," the juror said. "I think he was a little negligible [sic] in doing what he did but his heart was in the right place and it just went terribly wrong."
Asked by Cooper if she feels that Zimmerman is guilty of anything, she replied: "I think he's guilty of not using good judgment. When he was in the car and he called 911, he shouldn't have gotten out of that car. But the 911 operator also, when he was talking to him, kind of egged him on. I don't know if it's their policy to tell them what to do, not to get out of the car, to stay in their car. But I think he should have said 'Stay in your car,' not 'Can you see where he's gone.'"
She said she believes it is Zimmerman's voice that can be heard screaming for help on the 911 calls. She also thinks her fellow jury members, with the exception of perhaps one, felt the same way.
STORY: 'The Wire' Creator David Simon on Zimmerman Verdict: 'I Can't Look an African-American Parent in the Eye'
Juror B37 is also writing a book with her attorney husband. Martin Literary Agency said the book will focus on Florida self-defense laws, gun control and race relations and will also explain "why the jurors had no option but to find Zimmerman not guilty due to the manner in which he was charged and the content of the jury instructions."
HLN reported that the juror has lived in Seminole County, Fla., for 18 years and has been married for 20. She has two adult children, once had a concealed weapons permit and volunteers for animal rescue groups, according to HLN.
