PROTESTERS reacted with fury after a neighbourhood watch volunteer who shot dead an unarmed black teenager was cleared over the killing.
Lawyers for George Zimmerman, 29, argued he acted in selfdefence and with justifiable use of deadly force in the death of TrayvonMartin, 17, in Florida. 
He was cleared by a jury of second-degree murder and manslaughter.
The case sparked a fierce debate about racial profiling in the US.
President Barack Obama had said if he had a son 'he'd look like Trayvon'.
After the verdict police and community leaders appealed for calm in Sanford, the town where the shooting took place.
Protest marches were staged in several cities including San Francisco, Philadelphia and Washington, and there were reports of buildings being attacked in Oakland, California.
Mr Zimmerman showed little reaction as the verdict was read out. His lawyer Mark O'Mara said after the case: "Hopefully everyone will respect the jury's verdict."
Benjamin Crump, the Martin family lawyer, said: "TrayvonMartin will forever remain in the annals of history... as a symbol for the fight for equal justice for all."
Mr Martin's family maintained throughout the trial that the teenager wasn't the aggressor, and prosecutors suggested Mr Martin was scared because he was being followed by a stranger. But defence attorneys claimed Mr Martin knocked Mr Zimmerman down and was slamming the older man's head against the concrete sidewalk when Mr Zimmerman fired his gun.
Prosecutors called Mr Zimmerman a liar and portrayed him as a 'wannabe cop' vigilante who had grown frustrated by break-ins in his neighbourhood committed primarily by young black men.
They claimed Mr Zimmerman assumed Mr Martin was up to no good and took the law into his own hands.
Despite the racially-charged nature of the case, race was barely mentioned at the trial.
one of the few times it was one of the few times it was came from witness Rachel Jeantel, the Miami teenager who was talking to Martin by phone 'moments before he was shot.
She said she overheard Mr She said she overheard Mr Martin demand: 'What are you following me for?' and then yell, 'Get off! Get off!' before his mobile phone went dead.
