The jury rejected the prosecution's contention that George Zimmerman pursued Trayvon Martin and instigated the fight that led to his death in Florida. 
The acquittal of a Florida man in the shooting death of a black teenager reverberated across church pulpits and angry street protests Sunday, setting off an anguished conversation about race, crime and how an American justice system had handled the racially polarizing case of a young man killed while walking, unarmed, to his father's home.
Black leaders described the failure of the six-person jury to convict George Zimmerman on any counts in the killing of TrayvonMartin - a thin young man in a sweatshirt returning from a convenience store - as evidence of endemic racism in the American political and judicial system.
''Trayvon Benjamin Martin is dead because he and other black boys and men like him are not seen as a person, but a problem,'' the Reverend Raphael G. Warnock, senior pastor at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, told his congregation on Sunday. Mr. Warnock, in an interview afterward, put the killing in the context of a month in which the Supreme Court had gutted the Voting Rights Act, with its protections for minority voters. 
''The last few weeks have been pivotal to the consciousness of black America,'' he said. ''Black men have been stigmatized. We've become a stigmatized mascot for social misery and the canvas on which America projects all of its problems.''
Benjamin Todd Jealous, president of the N.A.A.C.P., said there were parallels between Mr. Martin and some of the most iconic names in the tortured American history of racial division. Emmett Till, a black teenager, was murdered in Mississippi in 1915, reportedly after flirting with a white woman. Rodney King, a black construction worker, came to world attention in 1991 when his beating by several Los Angeles police officers after a high-speed car chase was captured on video. The subsequent acquittal of those officers sparked widespread race riots, the worst in the United States since the 1960s.
''There is no question that this case has pulled together the current generation of young people of all colors in the way that the Till case did and the way that the Rodney King case did,'' Mr. Jealous said on CNN. ''This case stands out.''
In the immediate aftermath of the Zimmerman verdict, there were spontaneous demonstrations in several black communities, including those in New York, Washington and Oakland, California. There were no reports of violence.
Mr. Zimmerman and his supporters dismissed any racial interpretations of the verdict, arguing - as his lawyers did in court - that as a self-appointed neighborhood watch volunteer he was keeping an eye on Mr. Martin but acted in self-defense as he banged Mr. Zimmerman's head on a sidewalk.
Florida law explicitly gives civilians the power to take extraordinary steps to defend themselves when they feel that their lives are in danger, even if they have the option of retreating.
Already on Sunday there were calls, including from Harry Reid, the U.S. Senate majority leader, for Floridians to re-examine that expansive law. Other critics called for its outright repeal.
Reaction to the verdict by an all-woman jury that included no African-Americans suggested that five years after Americans elected their first black president, racial relations remain, in many instances, pitched and polarized, particularly when they involve the justice system and the police.
Black leaders questioned whether Mr. Zimmerman, who is part Hispanic, would have ever been acquitted if he had been a black man and Mr. Martin had been white.
The jury in Sanford, whose members looked drawn and grim as they entered the courtroom with their verdict, rejected the prosecution's contention that Mr. Zimmerman had deliberately pursued Mr. Martin because he assumed the hoodie-clad teenager was a criminal.
Mr. Zimmerman said he shot Mr. Martin on Feb. 26, 2012, in self-defense after the teenager knocked him to the ground and slammed his head against the sidewalk. In finding him not guilty of murder or manslaughter, the jury agreed that Mr. Zimmerman could have been justified in shooting Mr. Martin because he feared great bodily harm or death.
Mr. Jealous of the N.A.A.C.P. said the verdict was especially upsetting for black parents.
''It feels so often that our young people have to fear the bad guys and the good guys, the robbers and the cops, and the self-appointed community watch volunteers,'' he said.
Representative Chaka Fattah, Democrat of Pennsylvania, who is a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, said he feared that a dangerous precedent had been set.
''What the jury is saying is, here's George Zimmerman back, here's his gun back, and what he did was perfectly fine, and he's coming to a neighborhood near you,'' he said on CNN. ''I don't think we've seen the end of this.''
Both Mr. Reid and Mr. Jealous indicated that the federal government would pursue the case. The N.A.A.C.P. leader said that he and his staff had received assurances from senior Justice Department officials that the case would be carefully reviewed.
Supporters of Mr. Zimmerman expressed relief, but also concern for his safety.
''He's going to be looking around his shoulder for the rest of his life,'' Robert Zimmerman Jr., George's brother, said on CNN. ''There are factions, there are groups, there are people that would want to take the law into their own hands.''
The case began as a seemingly routine homicide but soon evolved into a civil rights cause examining racial profiling and its consequences - though the judge, Debra S. Nelson of Seminole County Court, barred that issue from the courtroom. Mr. Martin was its unlikely catalyst.
Even President Barack Obama expressed sympathy for Mr. Martin's family in the weeks after the killing as he urged a thorough investigation. ''If I had a son,'' Mr. Obama said, ''he'd look like Trayvon.''
When the verdict was read on Saturday, Mr. Zimmerman, 29, smiled slightly. His wife, Shellie, and several of his friends wept, and his parents kissed and embraced.
Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, who lost their son a few weeks after his 17th birthday, were not in the courtroom. In a statement released Sunday, their lawyer, Benjamin Crump, said that the family was heartbroken and that they thanked people around the world for their support.
The public outcry over the case built up in the weeks after the killing when the police initially decided not to arrest Mr. Zimmerman. Mr. Martin had no criminal record.
Mr. Zimmerman was arrested only after civil rights leaders championed the case and demonstrators around the country demanded action.
From the start of the trial, prosecutors faced a difficult task in proving second-degree murder. That charge required Mr. Zimmerman to have evinced a ''depraved mind,'' brimming with ill will, hatred, spite or evil intent, when he shot Mr. Martin.
Manslaughter was a lower bar, but because of Florida's laws, prosecutors had to persuade jurors beyond a reasonable doubt that Mr. Zimmerman did not act in self-defense.
Even after three weeks of testimony, the fight between Mr. Martin and Mr. Zimmerman on that rainy night was a muddle. It remained unclear who had started the fight, who screamed for help, and who threw the first punch. There were no eyewitnesses.
The defense repeatedly showed photographs of Mr. Zimmerman's injuries - a bloody nose and two cuts on his head.
But prosecutors played up the heart-wrenching narrative of a teenager ''minding his own business'' who was gunned down as he walked home.
''That child had every right to do what he was doing, walking home,'' said John Guy, a prosecutor in the case. ''That child had every right to be afraid of a strange man following him, first in his car and then on foot. And did that child not have the right to defend himself?''
