Egypt names prime minister:
CAIRO -- After days of deadlock, Egypt's military-backed interim president named Hazem el-Beblawi, a veteran economist, as prime minister Tuesday and appointed pro-democracy leader Mohamed ElBaradei as a vice president, while the army showed its strong hand in shepherding the process, warning political factions against "maneuvering" to impede the transition.
Confusion over Snowden: 
MOSCOW -- The WikiLeaks secret-spilling site Tuesday said NSA leaker Edward Snowden has not yet formally accepted asylum in Venezuela, trying to put to rest growing confusion over whether he had taken up the country's offer. Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro has offered asylum to Snowden.
Taliban close Qatar office:
ISLAMABAD -- Afghanistan's Taliban have shuttered a newly opened office in the Gulf state of Qatar, vowing to fight on against President Hamid Karzai's government while abandoning a diplomatic approach seen as the best hope of finding a political end to the protracted 12-year war.
Blast kills 17 Afghan villagers:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- A roadside bomb struck a motorcycle-drawn cart carrying women and children between two villages Tuesday in western Afghanistan, killing all 17 people on board, a grim reminder of the dangers facing Afghan civilians ahead of the 2014 withdrawal of foreign combat troops.
Question at Fort Hood trial:
FORT HOOD, Texas -- An Army psychiatrist going on trial in the deadly 2009 Fort Hood shooting wants to tell potential jurors he's being forced to wear a military uniform he believes represents "an enemy of Islam," he told a judge Tuesday. It's unclear if the judge will allow Maj. Nidal Hasan to make this statement.
Polygamist bomber freed:
SALT LAKE CITY -- Addam Swapp, 52, who bombed a Mormon church building and sparked a 13-day standoff in 1988 that left a corrections officer dead at a polygamist compound, was released from prison Tuesday after more than 25 years behind bars. "I am completely opposed to the violent acts I committed," he said upon his release.
Nevada fires still growing:
LAS VEGAS -- Fire crews worked Tuesday to stop two large Nevada wildfires advancing through rugged mountain areas, including one that billowed smoke visible from downtown Las Vegas and another southwest of Reno, while administrators added resources and began looking to the weather to help contain flames.
John Kerry's wife improving:
BOSTON -- Doctors treating Teresa Heinz Kerry, the wife of U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, have ruled out several serious conditions such as a brain tumor, stroke or heart attack as possible causes of the seizure-like symptoms she experienced, a spokesman for Kerry said Tuesday. Heinz Kerry, 74, became ill Sunday.
Defense seeks introduction: SANFORD, Fla. -- Defense attorneys asked a Florida judge on Tuesday to introduce Trayvon Martin's text messages and a Facebook posting dealing with fighting as evidence at George Zimmerman's trial. Defense attorneys called computer analyst Richard Connor to read to the judge text messages he found on the 17-year-old Martin's phone in which he purportedly recounted a fight he had been in to a friend.
Bolivia protests U.S. action:
WASHINGTON -- Bolivian Interior Minister Carlos Romero on Tuesday denounced the "act of aggression" when Bolivian President Evo Morales' plane was rerouted to Austria amid suspicions National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden was on board. The issue has strained U.S. relations with Latin American nations.
Pentagon looks at MIA unit:
WASHINGTON -- The Pentagon said Tuesday it will take a "second look" at how it goes about accounting for missing Americans on foreign battlefields, following the disclosure of an internal assessment that the work is "acutely dysfunctional" and at risk of failure. The U.S. estimates there are more than 83,000 Americans missing from foreign wars.
FBI nominee defends NSA:
WASHINGTON -- The White House's nominee to become FBI director, James Comey, told members of Congress Tuesday federal judges who oversee government intelligence programs are "anything but a rubber stamp." But Comey agreed to work with legislators to improve laws governing surveillance.
House seeks to cut IRS budget:
WASHINGTON -- The GOP-controlled House unveiled slashing cuts to the budget of the Internal Revenue Service Tuesday, punishing the department after it targeted Tea Party groups and other nonprofits seeking tax-exempt status. The agency's 2014 budget would be cut 24 percent below levels approved in March.
Russia accuses Syrian rebels:
UNITED NATIONS -- Russia's U.N. ambassador said Tuesday Russian experts determined Syrian rebels made sarin nerve gas and used it in a deadly chemical weapon attack outside Aleppo in March. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin blamed opposition fighters for the March 19 attack.
Storm hits Lesser Antilles:
ROSEAU, Dominica -- Tropical Storm Chantal raced across small islands in the eastern Caribbean on Tuesday as officials issued a hurricane watch for the southern coast of the Dominican Republic. The storm had maximum sustained winds of 65 mph, and was moving west-northwest at 29 mph.
Berlusconi allies cry foul:
ROME -- Silvio Berlusconi's lawyers and allies are expressing outrage that Italy's highest court set a remarkably quick July 30 hearing date for his tax fraud appeal -- an apparently accelerated calendar to prevent the statute of limitations from expiring on one of the charges.
