ZIMMERMAN'S ATTORNEY GIVES CLOSING ARGUMENTS
SANFORD, Fla. -- George Zimmerman's defense attorney gave his final arguments today, telling jurors he will show them the neighborhood watch volunteer's "pure, unadulterated innocence" of second-degree murder when he fatally shot 17-year-old Trayvon Martin.
Attorney Mark O'Mara told jurors the burden was on prosecutors, and he said they hadn't proven Mr. Zimmerman's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Mr. O'Mara said prosecutors built a case on a series hypothetical "could've beens" and "maybes." 
"If it hasn't been proven, it's not just there," Mr. O'Mara said. "You can't fill in the gaps. You can't connect the dots. You're not allowed to."
The six jurors could begin deliberating later today. Because there were no eyewitnesses, jurors will likely rely heavily on testimony -- which was often conflicting -- from police, neighbors, friends and family members. They will have to decide if they can determine who was yelling for help on a 911 call that recorded the shooting, and whether Mr. Zimmerman was a wannabe cop who took the law into his own hands or someone who was in a fight for his life, with his head being repeatedly slammed into the ground.
US AIRWAYS SHAREHOLDERS APPROVE MERGER
NEW YORK -- US Airways' CEO says shareholders have approved the proposed merger with American Airlines, one of the final steps remaining for the deal to create the world's biggest airline.
Doug Parker said today that enough shares were cast in favor of the merger to guarantee approval. The margin was not immediately available.
Owners of US Airways Group Inc. stock would get 28 percent of the shares in the combined company, with the rest going to creditors, employees and shareholders of American Airlines parent AMR Corp.
The deal is still being reviewed by antitrust regulators at the Department of Justice. It also needs the approval of the judge overseeing American's bankruptcy proceedings.
STUDENT LOAN DEAL FALLS APART
WASHINGTON -- Senators are back to the starting line in their search for a compromise that would reduce interest rates on student loans after being spooked by the $22 billion price tag that accompanied a potential deal.
Lawmakers from both parties had agreed on a tentative proposal that offered Democrats the promise that interest rates would not reach 10 percent and gave Republicans a link between borrowing terms and the financial markets that they sought. But that deal's red ink proved disqualifying and sent them back to square one.
Senators and their top aides, along with White House and Education Department officials, were going to return to negotiations for a deal that would undo the rate increase on subsidized Stafford loans, which doubled from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent on July 1.
Without congressional action before students return to campus, the increase could mean an extra $2,600 for an average student, according to Congress' Joint Economic Committee.
The $22 billion cost for the 10-year rate compromise, however, stopped progress in its tracks and sent lawmakers back to the drawing board. The unexpected cost estimate was unlikely to end talks among lawmakers about how they might reduce rates.
ARSENIC LIMITS SET FOR APPLE JUICE
WASHINGTON -- Parents who have been fretting over the low levels of arsenic found in apple juice can feel better about buying one of their kids' favorite drinks.
The Food and Drug Administration is setting a new limit on the level of arsenic allowed in apple juice, after more than a year of public pressure from consumer groups worried about the contaminant's effects on children. Nationwide, apple juice is second only to orange juice in popularity, according to industry groups.
Under the new regulation, apple juice containing more than 10 parts per billion could be removed from the market and companies could face legal action. Agency officials stressed that the vast majority of juices on the market are already below the threshold.
