In ancient Athens, popular courts of paid jurors helped institutionalize fairness. If a troublemaker like Socrates was thought to be a danger to the popular will, then he was put on trial for inane charges like "corrupting the youth" or "introducing new gods."
Convicting gadflies would remind all Athenians of the dangers of questioning democratic majority sentiment. If Athenian families were angry that their sons had supposedly died unnecessarily in battle, then they might charge the generals with negligence -- a warning to all commanders to watch their backs. As with Socrates, a majority vote often led to conviction, and conviction to a death sentence, or at least ostracism or exile. The courts freelanced to ensure that "the people" would hold sway over the perceived powerful and elite. 
We in the United States are in jeopardy of turning our own criminal-justice system into revolutionary tribunals -- fanned by the media and public opinion.
In October 2005 popular anger against the Bush administration over the Iraq war was at its zenith -- and in particular against the unapologetic Dick Cheney, Karl Rove, and other top Bush officials. The Democrats were confident of making gains in the upcoming 2006 midterm elections, in part by attaching animus and scandal to administration grandees.
We don't hear much any more about Scooter Libby, who was chief of staff to Vice President Cheney. But in late 2005, by a set of strange circumstances, he became a target of media anger and liberal fury. Libby was indicted by a Washington grand jury and put on trial by Special Prosecutor Patrick Fitzgerald, supposedly for leaking the claimed covert identity of Central Intelligence Agency officer Valerie Plame Wilson.
We know now that not only was Plame's identity probably not covert, but, if it ever had been, former Secretary of State Colin Powell's own deputy, Richard Armitage, had already leaked it. And we also know that both Fitzgerald and Powell knew that fact at the time of the trial, and yet kept silent about it.
Libby was eventually convicted not of disclosing anything illegal about Plame, but, in the course of unending testimonies, of obstructing justice by supposedly not telling the entire truth under oath to various federal bodies. The crushed career of Libby served as a sort of national venting and warning. Once the federal court had become a revolutionary tribunal acceding to the popular will, the furor passed, the media were satiated, Libby was ruined and calm returned.
In other words, media hysteria, popular anger, and ideology determine whether revolutionary courts go after someone like Scooter Libby as an enemy of the people, or ignore those in the Obama administration who lie under oath or take the Fifth Amendment. The court system has become a valuable tool of perceived social, rather than individual, justice.
People can disagree on the merits of the George Zimmerman self-defense case. But few serious observers believe that Zimmerman can be proved to have committed second-degree murder as charged. That prosecutorial overreach came in response to the furor whipped up by racialists like Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton, veiled suggestions from Attorney General Eric Holder that civil-rights violations might be prosecuted, and improper editorializing by the president about his and TrayvonMartin's shared racial makeup.
Again, no one knows exactly what happened on the night TrayvonMartin was killed; but given the media distortions, threats, and popular agitation, everyone knows that a revolutionary tribunal is in session to find Zimmerman guilty of murder. He has ended up a necessary sacrificial pawn to serve wider issues of social justice, or at least avoid civil violence.
The American court system is insidiously focusing on social transformation rather than individual justice. If Neanderthal reactionaries in California twice voted to reiterate that marriage is between a man and a woman, then leave it to judges and courts to find them bigoted and politically incorrect.
Twenty years ago we laughed at the absurdities of the O.J. Simpson trial and verdict. But that circus has proved to be the blueprint for 21st-century American criminal justice.
Victor Davis Hanson is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution.
