Believe it or not, some people actually didn't find Season 1 of "The Newsroom" to be an exercise in televisual waterboarding.
Aaron Sorkin's idealistic HBO drama series about a fictional cable news network played to a relatively small but loyal core weekly audience of around 2 million viewers, including avid notables such as Dan Rather, Brian Williams and Arianna Huffington.
You might not know that, though, because they were drowned out by a vitriolic throng of critics who practically found themselves dry-heaving with each passing episode. A sampling of the venomous adjectives used to describe the show: "Sexist," "sanctimonious," "condescending," "self righteous," "ponderous," "preachy," "smug," "overwrought" -- and probably a few we can't print. 
Were some of the slams warranted? Absolutely. The left-leaning Sorkin, who seems incapable of easing off the gas pedal, did, indeed, recklessly veer into overindulgence way too often. And his much-maligned female characters, including executive producer Mackenzie McHale (Emily Mortimer) did, at times, seem to come off as love-struck ninnies.
But was "The Newsroom" really as horrendous as the booming chorus of hate-watchers made it seem to be? No. Not even close.
Now comes Season 2 and the prospects of a fresh start. In recent interviews, Sorkin has addressed some narrative nips and tucks that he hopes will appease the naysayers. But the Oscar-winning writer also knows it's foolish to allow them to be his only guide.
"You're playing a dangerous game if you write to try to change people's minds," he said in a candid interview with the Hollywood Reporter.
The show's nine-episode second season finds pugnacious anchor Will McAvoy (Jeff Daniels) in boiling hot water after labeling the tea party as the "American Taliban" on the air. In fact, he's stirred up so much of a stink that his boss, Charlie Skinner (Sam Waterston), is contemplating pulling Will off ACN's 9/11 anniversary coverage.
As usual, "The Newsroom" relives real-life news events through the eyes of its quixotic reporters. The new season covers the period from August 2011 to November 2012 and touches upon the Occupy Wall Street movement, Trayvon Martin, drone strikes, Benghazi and, of course, the primaries and general election.
But it's a fictional plot line inspired by the 1998 "Tailwind" incident that apparently will provide much of the season's narrative thrust. Fueled by a mysterious tip, fill-in producer Jerry Dantana (Hamish Linklater) zealously looks to score a big story that accuses the U.S. military of a massive war crime. The story leads to legal trouble for the network, which turns to a whip-smart First Amendment attorney played by Marcia Gay Harden.
And, yes, there are improvements. The four episodes presented to critics make nimble use of a new narrative structure that relies on flashbacks to suss out the details of this story and how the network might have bungled it big time. Also, Sorkin appears to have toned down the rants just a bit and is being a little less heavy-handed when it comes to those messy workplace romances.
Still, Sorkin is Sorkin, and you can't separate the writer from his work. That means the earnest, rat-a-tat speechifying is still there, along with the manipulative touches and the simplistic high-mindedness.
Regarding the latter, one early subplot has producer Jim Harper (John Gallagher Jr.) taking leave to cover the Romney presidential campaign and heroically standing up to brutish Romney staffers who repel tough questions as they go about pushing their generic talking points.
Though this story line will surely elicit cheers from some, there is a moldy and mean-spirited feel to it. Moreover, the naive notion that Jim would be the only one on the campaign bus with any shred of journalistic integrity is enough to make your eyes roll.
The bottom line on Season 2 of "The Newsroom" is that it's unlikely to sway viewers one way or another. Devotees will continue to embrace it, and the haters will continue to hate. Sorkin just has that polarizing effect.
As for this critic, let's just say that I'd rather watch an energetic, well-acted, provocative show that aims high and sometimes falls short, than one that doesn't aim high at all. Television is filled with way too many of the latter, and there's really no time for that.
Contact Chuck Barney atcbarney@bayareanewsgroup.com . Follow him atTwitter.com/chuckbarney andFacebook.com/bayareanewsgroup.chuckbarney .'the newsroom'H **When: 10 p.m. SundayWhere: HBO
