U.S. President Barack Obama urged Americans to respect the decision of jurors on Sunday following the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the death of unarmed teenager TrayvonMartin, a case that has bitterly divided the country along racial and partisan lines since the boy was gunned down more than a year ago.
"I know this case has elicited strong passions," Obama said in a statement in which he referred to the slaying of the black 17-year-old as a "tragedy" for all of America. 
"And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher. But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken. I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son." Zimmerman's legal problems, however, seemed far from over a day after a jury of six Florida women cleared him of manslaughter and second-degree murder charges - a verdict that stunned the black community and civil rights groups and spurred largely peaceful protests in the streets in several U.S. cities.
A jury of six women accepted that Zimmerman had acted in self-defence when he shot and killed Martin as the teenager walked to his father's house in a gated community in Sanford, Fla., near Orlando, in February last year.
Zimmerman had called the police after he spotted Trayvon at night, but ignored orders not to confront the teenager, who he believed was "up to no good." A fight ensured during which he shot Martin dead.
Zimmerman, a mortgage underwriter described during the trial as a "wannabe cop," smiled briefly after the verdict was read out and was hugged by his mother and father.
Martin's parents, Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, who were at the heart of the campaign for justice for their son, chose not to be in court on Saturday evening and spent Sunday morning in church. TrayvonMartin's brother, Jahvaris Fulton, said on Twitter: "Et tu America?" - a reference to the Latin phrase "Et tu, Brute?" known as an expression of betrayal.
The Justice Department said in a statement on Sunday that it's investigating Martin's death to determine whether federal prosecutors should file criminal civil rights charges now that Zimmerman has been acquitted in the state case. The department launched a probe a year ago but stepped aside to allow Florida's prosecution to proceed.
Martin's parents are also considering a wrongful-death civil suit against Zimmerman. Sixteen years ago, O.J. Simpson was ordered to pay $25 million in compensation to Nicole Brown Simpson's family members despite his infamous acquittal in criminal court.
Martin was walking to his father's house carrying a can of iced tea and a box of Skittles when he was gunned down by Zimmerman, a neighbourhood watch volunteer. Zimmerman claimed he shot the boy in selfdefence when Martin began beating him.
In a country still smarting from a painful history of slavery and segregation, many blacks saw overt racism in Zimmerman's focus on a black boy wearing a hoodie as he walked through a gated community.
The verdict, many argued this weekend, proves the criminal justice system is still inherently biased against black people given Martin, the unarmed slaying victim, was successfully portrayed as the aggressor in the case.
"This is a slap in the face to those that believe in justice in this country," said Al Sharpton, the Baptist minister and civil rights activist who helped to draw attention to the case after police initially released Zimmerman without charge. "What this jury has done is establish a precedent that when you are young and fit a certain profile, you can be committing no crime, just bringing some Skittles and iced tea home to your brother, and be killed and someone can claim selfdefence. I think that this is an atrocity."
Former New York governor Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat now running for New York City comptroller, called the verdict a "failure of justice."
"The judicial system is not perfect. And in this case it has failed," he said.
