America's largest black advocacy group demanded last night that authorities pursue a federal civil rights case against George Zimmerman, the neighbourhood watch leader acquitted of the murder of the teenager TrayvonMartin.
Ben Jealous, president of the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People, said the case - in which Zimmerman, who is of mixed white-Hispanic parentage, followed then shot the unarmed black 17-year-old - met the benchmark for an inquiry by the Department of Justice.
Although the jury in Sanford, Florida, accepted Zimmerman's argument that he acted in self-defence when he shot Martin on 26 February last year, Jealous said the evidence suggested race was a factor and vowed to pursue civil rights charges. "We will not rest until racial profiling in all its forms is outlawed," he said. 
Last night, Barack Obama called for "calm reflection" and acknowledged the case has provoked strong reactions. The president said: "We should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to stem the tide of gun violence . . . We should ask ourselves, as individuals and as a society, how we can prevent future tragedies like this . . . That's the way to honour TrayvonMartin."
The US justice department said last night that it is evaluating whether it has enough evidence to support a prosecution of Zimmerman in federal court after his acquittal in the Florida state court.
The unanimous verdict came late on Saturday night after more than 16 hours of deliberations by the jury of six women, five white and one Hispanic. Zimmerman, 29, smiled briefly and shook the hands of his lawyers. Martin's parents were not in court to hear the decision. "Even though I am brokenhearted, my faith is unshattered. I will always love my baby Tray," the victim's father Tracy Martin said in a tweet posted shortly after the verdict. His ex-wife, Martin's mother Sybrina Fulton, said she was in her "darkest hour".
Apart from a few smashed windows and small street fires in Oakland, California, protests around the US against the verdict were largely muted. A number of peaceful rallies and church gatherings were held in Miami, Martin's home town.
Daryl Parks, the Martins' lawyer, said: "Although we accept the verdict, we find it to be socially illogical . . . No decent thinking person would ever believe that an armed person should ever be allowed to shoot an unarmed child."
The case, which tapped into national debates about race, civil rights and the proliferation of guns, was decided on several key issues, not least whether Zimmerman acted in self-defence. The neighbourhood watchman did not testify during the three-week trial but his lawyers said Martin was the aggressor during the confrontation, breaking the defendant's nose and smashing his head on the pavement.
Prosecutors sought to portray Zimmerman as an angry vigilante who was "fed up" after a run of burglaries at the Retreat at Twin Lakes gated community and who wrongly assumed Martin was a criminal.
Mark O'Mara, the lead defence attorney, said Zimmerman was "very, very happy" with the jury's decision, but was likely to remain in hiding, as he has been since he was freed on bail in June 2012. Family and friends said yesterday he would never be able to live a normal life. "Clearly he's a free man in the eyes of the court, but he's going to be looking around his shoulder for the rest of his life," said Robert Zimmerman Jr, George's brother.
The verdict will almost certainly not mark an end to Zimmerman's legal battles. O'Mara has promised to defend him against the wrongful death suit that will carry a lower burden of proof. Analysts said the case put by the prosecutors had been weak and circumstantial.
Zimmerman said he spotted Martin as he was on his way to buy groceries, then called police to report a "suspicious male". Martin was walking back to the house of his father's fiancee at the gated community carrying a soft drink and sweets he had bought at a local shop when the two somehow ended up in a fight.
Zimmerman was released without charge on the night of the shooting. He was arrested 44 days later after nationwide protests led to a special prosecutor being appointed to re-examine the case.
He could face another criminal trial for federal hate crime charges, following complaints by some African American leaders over the decision by prosecutors in the trial not to try to paint Zimmerman as someone who targeted Martin due to his race. "The state's attorney avoided the issue of race, the defence team denied the issue of race - yet racial profiling was obvious from the very beginning," said civil rights leader Jesse Jackson.
Speaking after the verdict, special prosecutor Angela Corey, who charged Zimmerman, said: "This case has never been about race, nor the right to bear arms . . . But TrayvonMartin was profiled, there's no doubt he was profiled to be a criminal."
Captions:
A rally in Los Angeles demonstrating at George Zimmerman's acquittal of the murder of TrayvonMartin (both pictured below) Photograph: Jason Redmond/Reuters
