The Brattleboro Reformer has many colleagues around the country producing news for our "sister" papers. The Daily DFM is a "top picks" of today's national news. Consider it a collection of "things you should know, today."
1.Live video: Closing arguments in George Zimmerman trial in death of TrayvonMartin By Digital First Media
Attorneys made their closing arguments this morning in the trial of George Zimmerman, who is charged in the death of TrayvonMartin. The six jurors could begin deliberating as early as Friday.
Over the course of four days, Zimmerman's defense attorneys called 18 witnesses, according to AP, and though Zimmerman never testified, jurors saw repeated video recordings of him telling his side of the story to investigators. 
Last Friday, Trayvon's family members, including his mother, Sybrina Fulton, and older brother Jahvaris Fulton, took the stand. Sybrina Fulton testified it was her son who could be heard screaming in the background of a 911 call.
(Live feed via WTSP.com)show more
Defense attorney Mark O'Mara told CNN there is "overwhelming evidence" that Zimmerman acted in self-defense when he shot and killed Martin, 17, in February 2012 in Sanford, Fla., according to AP. Zimmerman says he shot Martin in self-defense while the teen straddled and punched him.The unarmed teen was walking home from a nearby convenience store when he was killed. Zimmerman was a self-described Neighborhood Watch captain in his gated community about 25 miles north of Orlando.Jurors will be sequestered until the trial is over2.Health centers getting $150M to sign up uninsured By Staff, The Associated Press
The Obama administration says it's enlisting community health centers in the drive to sign up uninsured people under the new health care law. (Adam Berry)
WASHINGTON - The Obama administration says it's enlisting community health centers in the drive to sign up uninsured people under the new health care law.
Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced Wednesday that more than 1,100 health centers in all 50 states will share $150 million in grants for outreach. It's the largest pot of federal money for in-person enrollment assistance.
The centers provide basic primary health care to millions of people, usually in low-income communities. Their clients are also one of the main target groups for President Barack Obama's health care law, which is eventually expected to cover 25 million to 30 million uninsured people.
Enrollment starts Oct. 1, and benefits kick in Jan. 1. Republicans in Congress are trying to deny funds for carrying out the expansion.
3.U.S., China agree to cut emissions from vehicles, coal By Timothy Gardner, Reuters
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew (back L) delivers remarks with China's Vice Premier Wang Yang (back R) at the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue (S&ED) at the Treasury Department in Washington, July 10, 2013. (REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst)
WASHINGTON - The United States and China, the world's top emitters of greenhouse gases, agreed to five initiatives on Wednesday to cut carbon output from the largest sources, including heavy duty vehicles, manufacturing and coal-fired plants, the State Department said.
The U.S.-China climate change working group, which officials from both countries formed in April, will work with companies and non-governmental groups to develop plans by October to carry out the measures aimed at fighting climate change and cutting pollution.
The initiatives are also aimed at improving energy efficiency, collection and management of greenhouse gas data, and promoting electric grids to carry more power from renewable energy.
The group agreed to the measures at the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue held at the State Department. The two-day meeting ends on Thursday.
Secretary of State John Kerry and Treasury Secretary Jack Lew hosted a Chinese delegation, led by State Councilor Yang Jiechi and Vice Premier Wang Yang, at the talks that cover both economics and wider geopolitical issues.show more
The climate agreements will concentrate on improving technologies, and will not be binding and will not seek to cut emissions by specific volumes. Still, the hope is any cooperation could help lend support to wider international talks on greenhouse gas reductions and help finalize a global treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol on climate change by 2015.
"On the one hand it's not suddenly going to transform the negotiations, I'm absolutely not saying that, but ... it will project something positive that I think will be helpful," U.S. climate envoy Todd Stern told reporters in a teleconference.
China and the United States are responsible for about 43 percent of global greenhouse gas output.
Increasing the ability of the two countries to capture carbon emissions from coal-fired plants and to bury them underground was also the focus of one of Wednesday's agreements.
The goal is to move from the research and development phase to large scale demonstration projects, Stern said. "It's certainly not the case that we are going to be financing large-scale CCS (carbon capture and storage) plants in China, per se, but rather to try to spur the development of them there and also here."
Wednesday's move builds on an agreement last month by U.S. President Barack Obama and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping to cooperate in phasing out production and consumption of gases used in refrigerants and air conditioners.
The so-called hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, came into wide commercial use to replace ozone-depleting chemicals that are being phased out under the 1987 Montreal Protocol. They make up roughly 2 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, but use of the chemicals is rising at a rate of up to 9 percent a year.
Stern said China and the United States are trying to develop alternatives to HFCs, not all of which are fully available.4.Arrested Denver Broncos executives face problems 'bigger than football' By Mike Klis, The Denver Post
In a photo provided by the Douglas County (Colo.) Sheriff's Department, Tom Heckert, the Denver Broncos' new director of pro personnel, appears in a photo after he was arrested on June 11, 2013, and charged with driving under the influence and careless driving. Another Broncos executive, Matt Russell, was arrested over the weekend on suspicion of driving under the influence. (Associated Press)
Suspensions, fines and punishment may help simmer the public outrage over two Broncos executives arrested for DUI. But there is more to consider in the cases of Broncos executives Matt Russell and Tom Heckert.
The Broncos may have preferred to mete out punishment Tuesday, but first they consulted with the NFL. There is a process involved. There are medical evaluations that must be conducted.
The Broncos, who have said publicly that the punishment would be severe, are not providing a timetable as to when Russell, 40, and Heckert, 45 - the top two assistants to football operations boss John Elway - will be disciplined, but it may take up to a week.
"This is bigger than football," team spokesman Patrick Smyth said Wednesday. "It's obviously very serious. We need to make sure we handle this the right way and give careful consideration to all of the issues involved. That process takes time."
Heckert, hired in early May as the Broncos' director of pro personnel, was cited for DUI on June 11 in Parker.show more
According to records, he was stopped after "striking the median and almost hit the stop light," the sheriff's report said.
Heckert blew a 0.162 on a breath test upon his release nearly seven hours after his arrest, according to official documents, more than twice the legal limit.
The Broncos had their final minicamp session June 13, after which the players, coaches and executives cleared out of team headquarters for their offseason vacation. Players are scheduled to return for training camp July 24.
Heckert might receive penalties similar to the 30-day suspension and $100,000 fine the league imposed on Detroit Lions president Tom Lewand in 2010 for his driving while impaired conviction.
Russell's punishment figures to be more severe. Promoted a year ago to director of player personnel, Russell was arrested Saturday evening after he rammed his Toyota Tundra truck into a parked Breckenridge Police Department patrol vehicle at approximately 40 miles per hour, according to an arrest affidavit prepared by the Colorado State Patrol. According to the affidavit, Russell's breath alcohol content measured at 0.246 - more than three times the legal limit. He had an open bottle of peppermint schnapps in his truck.
Russell and Heckert have expressed remorse in statements. Team president Joe Ellis said Tuesday his "expectation is the discipline will be severe."
Harvey Steinberg, the attorney who represents both Russell and Heckert, had no comment Wednesday.5.Five Beatles songs you might be surprised to hear Paul McCartney play live By Lavanya Ramanathan, The Washington Post
Paul McCartney mines the Beatles archive. Here, he performs in Washington in 1990. Illustrates MUSIC-MCCARTNEY (category e), by Chris Richards (c) 2013, The Washington Post. Moved Thursday, July 11, 2013. (MUST CREDIT: Washington Post) (Rich Lipski)
From the moment Paul McCartney, coolly holding his iconic, beat-up Hofner bass guitar, plucked the first notes of the "Out There" tour kickoff in Brazil, the audience must have recognized something momentous was happening.
He was playing "Eight Days a Week," the 1964 rocker that is one of the Beatles' most memorable No. 1 hits. And yet, until that show, the song, penned by McCartney and John Lennon, had never been played onstage. Lennon thought "Eight Days a Week," which the group struggled to write, was "lousy."
It's one of a handful of never-performed Beatles treasures that McCartney exhumed for his "Out There" tour. The nearly 40-song set list starts almost every night with "Eight Days a Week," then slips in four more rarely performed numbers from the Beatles catalog.
The list of songs the Beatles never played in concert is longer than you might think. The band's last ticketed performance was in August 1966, but the Beatles experienced their most fruitful years as songwriters after that, releasing "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" (1967), the double-album "The Beatles" (1968), "Abbey Road" (1969) and "Let It Be" (1970) before McCartney left the Beatles in 1970. It's difficult to know why McCartney has chosen them, but these are five rarely performed Beatles tunes that have turned up consistently on the "Out There" set lists:---show more'Eight Days a Week'
This Lennon-McCartney tune, which kicks off with a rollicking drum roll, was released abroad on "Beatles for Sale" but became a smash when it was released as a single stateside. There are a few dueling tales about where the title came from, but a popular one suggests that a driver told McCartney he had been working eight days a week.---'Lovely Rita'
A psychedelic little come-on (or, more likely, a sarcastic kiss-off) to a meter maid, the 1967 song off "Sgt. Pepper's" was sung by McCartney and featured a curious interlude with instruments made of paper and combs. McCartney has been including the tune in the middle of his set.---'Being for the Benefit of Mr. Kite!'
Lennon wrote this whirling carousel of a tune after being inspired, he would say, by an elaborate carnival poster he picked up in an antique shop. The song appeared on "Sgt. Pepper's" and featured an unusually heavy assist from legendary Beatles producer George Martin, who added the track's carnival-esque sounds. On the album, it's Lennon who sings "Mr. Kite."---'Your Mother Should Know'
This 1967 number, written and performed by McCartney, was released on "Magical Mystery Tour" and is an homage of sorts to the Busby Berkeley musical, although also a perfect example of the dreamy, hazy sound the Beatles had adopted.---'All Together Now'
The chants of one-two-threes and A-B-Cs make this nursery rhyme-like 1969 number off "Yellow Submarine" insanely catchy. McCartney has confirmed that the ditty in fact was written for children, mostly by him, with some contribution from Lennon. It's also one of a handful from the Beatles catalog that has been licensed for commercials, making it recognizable to fans everywhere.)6.Flash flooding threatens some roads in Brookline By Reformer staff
BROOKLINE (AP) - The latest round of flash flooding in Vermont has threatened several roads in the town of Brookline.
State police say a large beaver pond upstream from a road was breached, causing a large amount of water to rush downstream and overwhelm a small stream in the area early Thursday.
Police say Hill Road has been closed between Grassy Brook Road and Kirsch Road for an undetermined amount of time for repairs. Grassy Brook Road just south of the intersection of Hill Road, near the old Brookline School, will be open to a single lane of travel until a bridge that was overrun with water can be examined.
