Aug. 10--Greeley surgeon helps children in central America
Dr. Daniel Hatch, a foot and ankle surgeon in Greeley, has just returned from his semi annual medical mission trip to the Yucatan Crippled Children's Project.
He has donated his time over the past nine years taking surgical residents from North Colorado Medical Center. He treated children with congenital foot and ankle deformities in the Yucatan towns of Merida and Progresso, so they can walk and wear shoes. Two days are spent in surgery, and the last day is in a clinic where more than 90 children were screened for future trips. Hatch has practiced in Greeley for 30 years and is past president of the American College of Foot and Ankle Surgeons. He can be reached at (970) 351-0900.
A&P breaks ground on Grace Pointe expansion 
Adolfson & Peterson Construction on Aug. 1 joined with the Grace Pointe Continuing Care Community, Lantz-Boggio Architects and Continuum Health to kick off the expansion of the Grace Pointe Continuing Care Senior Campus in Greeley. Grace Pointe provides independent living and assisted living, nursing, rehabilitation and memory care services.
The Grace Pointe Project Phase I was completed five years ago; today we are very excited to break ground on Phase II," commented Jason Heustis, Senior Project Manager for A&P. The HUD project includes three expansions to the fully occupied facility. The first expansion, being the largest, consists of 26 apartments, while the other expansions are to the dining room in the rehabilitation wing and to the dining room in the assisted living wing.
A&P anticipates the 28,000-square-foot project to be completed by March 2015.
Local company earns Patriot Award
Connecting Point's president Ted Warner, and vice president of sales, Scott Warner, have been given the Patriot Award for their support of employees who also are members of the Air and Army National Guard.
Two employees, John Cox and Michael Brown, will be deploying over the next few weeks and can look forward to keeping their jobs up on their return. Cox, assigned as an aircraft crew chief to the 153rd Airlift Wing, Wyoming Air National Guard, will be away for four months supporting combat airlift operations including airdrops, medical evacuation, troop movements in support of Operation Enduring Freedom from an undisclosed Middle Eastern location.
Brown, assigned to the 1158th Army Space Support Company, Colorado Army National Guard, will be deploying with the 193rd Military Police Battalion for 14 months. He will be stationed at the naval base in Guantanamo Bay Cuba.
The Patriot Award reflects the efforts made to support citizen warriors through a wide-range of measures including flexible schedules, time off prior to and after deployment, caring for families and granting leaves of absence if needed, according to the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve, a Department of Defense office established in 1972 to promote cooperation and understanding between Reserve Component Service members and their civilian employers. Connecting Point, 2401 17th St., has operated locally in Greeley for more than 30 years.
True Abundance is now a 3-generation business
True Abundance Property Management can now brag it has a third generation helping run the business.
True Abundance has been in business for eight years and has always been a family run business, run by Tony and Diane Quigley. Their daughter, Michele Gerbitz, has been working for them for seven years as head of maintenance. The Quigley's granddaughter, Alexandra Quigley, has joined the business as a showing agent while she attends Aims Community College.
True Abundance Property Management is a full service Property Management Company and we also do Leasing for Weld County and Loveland. Call (970) 352-5732.
Financial adviser attends national conference
Larry Hubbard, a financial adviser with Ameriprise Financial, qualified for and attended the 2014 National Conference, which was held in Boston.
To earn this achievement, Hubbard established himself as one of the company's top advisers achieving high levels in production, client service and client satisfaction, according to a news release.
Hubbard's office is located at 1711 61st Ave., Suite 200, Greeley.
For more information, go to ameriprise.com or www.ameripriseadvisors.com/larry.hubbard.
Staff reports
___ (c)2014 the Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) Visit the Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) at www.greeleytribune.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
