Three days after a young black man was shot dead by police, the tension on the streets of St Louis, Missouri, remains high. Still, nobody seems quite sure what happened. All that is certain is Michael Brown, 18, was unarmed when he was shot several times just after 2pm on Saturday in the suburb of Ferguson. 
St Louis County Police Department chief Jon Belmar said officers "had an encounter" with Mr Brown, during which the youth pushed an officer and reached for his gun. "It is our understanding at this point in the investigation that there was a struggle over the officer's weapon. There was at least one shot fired in the car."
But Mr Brown was found dead more than 10 metres from the car and, according to his mother, was shot eight times.
Piaget Crenshaw, a young local woman, told a local Fox station Mr Brown was walking with a friend, Dorin Johnson, to his grandmother's apartment when an officer in a car ordered them to get off the road. After a verbal altercation, the officer shot Mr Brown dead as Mr Johnson hid behind a car. Mr Brown graduated from high school this year and was to start classes at a technical college on Monday.
After the shooting, events followed a tragically familiar path. Soon the streets had filled with protesters, some yelling "kill the police". Fearing a riot, police flooded the streets with officers.
On Sunday night the riot broke out. According to reports, a dozen or so businesses were vandalised or looted, two officers injured and 32 people arrested. On Monday the streets were again calm but tension remains high, especially as an autopsy report is soon to be made public. Angered that media appear to select photos of young black men in the news that make them look menacing, thousands have posted dual photos of Mr Brown or themselves online.
One post shows Mr Brown looking streetwise beside another of him looking comfortable in a class. Another typical post shows a photo of a young man throwing a gang sign beside another of him in military uniform reading to children.
The shooting comes as civil rights organisations prepare for protests in New York over the death of Eric Garner, 43, who died after police allegedly used an illegal "chokehold" on him while arresting him for selling single cigarettes on the street.
