Many preachers stick to the Bible and try to steer clear of the dangerous cultural currents that divide Americans, but Michael Brown wades in with both guns blazing.
"We're losing our freedoms every day. We're a nation with sexual anarchy, a nation with massive political divisions, a nation in massive debt, a nation where marriage has become a meaningless term," said Brown, who will speak next week at Victory Christian Center's Word Explosion, one of Tulsa's largest annual Christian events.
Brown said a new spate of TV shows feature nudity, polyamory, polygamy, adultery and a "constant flood of pornography." 
"The rising tide of sexual anarchy makes any of us who talk about sexual purity and commitment within marriage sound like extremists," he said.
"Without God's help, we're in a ship that is sinking very, very fast," said Brown, author of 25 books, seminary professor, host of a nationally syndicated radio broadcast and one of the leaders in the Brownsville Revival, which drew some 4 million people to a church in Pensacola, Florida, over a five-year period.
Brown linked what he sees as America's decline to a growing hostility to Christian values.
He said the sharp cultural shift in recent years away from traditional biblical standards for marriage has affected Americans' perception of the church.
"Now that the gay issue has become a civil rights issue, we're being painted as being on the wrong side of a civil rights issue," he said. "We're the discriminatory ones. We're the bigots, just like the KKK and even the Nazis, who put homosexuals in concentration camps and killed them. That's the way we're being perceived.
"The media is largely complicit in this, painting highly negative pictures of believing Christians and painting highly positive pictures of anyone who identifies as gay/lesbian/bisexual/transgender, with sympathetic, emotional stories," he said.
He said a recent U.S. government survey put the gay/lesbian/bisexual population in the United States at 2.4 percent, but that a recent Gallup poll suggests Americans' perception is that about 25 percent of the population is gay/lesbian/bisexual, a misconception created by the media.
Another factor affecting the perception people have of the church, he said, is an "aggressive, atheistic assault on the faith. We're now grouped together with religious extremists of all kinds. We're called Christo-fascists. We're just like the Taliban. We're called Christianists, which is to say we're these crazy fundamentalists.
"We're grouped together with people who really are doing a lot of evil. That's how we are perceived."
Some of the church's declining stature in society is self-inflicted, Brown said.
"The many scandals in our midst have caused people to take the church less seriously and made it a lot easier for people to attack us," he said.
He also said the church has become complacent and has "longed for the acceptance of the world more than the acceptance of God and has even built a theology that has tried to please people more than please God. ... When you're man-pleasers, that's always going to fail."
He said the church has preached a message "without an emphasis on holiness and repentance, and that has contributed to the moral and spiritual decline."
That message, sometime called "hyper-grace," is widely preached in American churches, he said, and especially appeals to the younger generation "who want to hear a slick, cool message and don't want to be perceived by the world as being full of hate."
Brown defined hyper-grace as the "message of biblical grace with exaggeration."
"It says the moment you are saved, God not only forgives your sins, but he pronounces all your future sins forgiven, as well. Therefore you never have to repent of sin or ask for forgiveness. ... God doesn't see your sin because you're already forgiven."
Hyper-grace subscribers say people who preach the need for repentance and turning from sin are legalists - Pharisees, he said.
"We've watched churches split and ministries collapse because they have embraced this message," he said.
Despite all this, Brown said, there is hope for the church and for the nation.
"The good news is, if we helped create the problem, we can help fix it. The first thing is to turn to God, seek his face, repent, ask God to clean up our junk ... show the world what it really means to be a follower of Jesus, ... demonstrate the love of God."
