PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti
Police still looking for 319 escapees after breakout
The attack on a Haitian prison on the capital's outskirts to free the son of a prominent businessman being held on kidnapping charges led to the escape of 329 inmates, officials said Monday. So far, authorities have only managed to capture 10 of the prisoners who escaped Sunday when armed men attacked the prison in Croix-des-Bouquets to free Clifford Brandt, a member of a wealthy family, who has been held since 2012 for allegedly running a kidnapping ring in the capital. 
STOCKHOLM
'Francois Mitterand was my father,' politician claims
A Swedish politician surrounded by rumours of being the secret son of Francois Mitterand says the late French president was his father. Hravn Forsne, 25, is running for Parliament, and made the claim in an interview with a local newspaper. "I want to be judged for who I am, not who my father was," Forsne told the paper. "But OK, that's how it is: Francois Mitterand was my father."
MIAMI
Rabbi's killers being hunted down after weekend shooting
Miami-Dade police on Monday said they are committed to finding the people responsible for shooting and killing a rabbi walking to temple in Northeast Miami-Dade over the weekend. Rabbi Joseph Raksin, who was visiting his family from Brooklyn, was on is way to Bais Menachem Chabad at about 9 a.m. Saturday when he was killed.
FERGUSON, Mo.
FBI investigating possible civil rights violation in police shooting
The FBI is investigating possible civil rights violations after a suburban St. Louis police officer fatally shot an unarmed teenager. Cheryl Mimura, a spokesperson for the FBI's St. Louis field office, says the agency opened an investigation Monday into possible civil rights violations arising from the death of 18-year-old Michael Brown. Police say Brown was shot multiple times Saturday in a scuffle with an officer in Ferguson. A candlelight vigil for Brown was held Sunday, and tensions erupted later that night. Nearly three dozen people were arrested after a crowd looted and burned stores, vandalized vehicles and taunted officers.
HELSINKI
Kasparov fails to unseat head
of World Chess Federation
Former world champion Garry Kasparov failed in his bid to oust the eccentric 19-year head of the World Chess Federation on Monday in a bitter contest steeped in Russian power plays. Kasparov, a vocal critic of Vladimir Putin, was the sole challenger against Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, a wealthy businessman known to be supported by the Russian president. Ilyumzhinov, who once claimed to have visited an alien spaceship.
News services
