The basics: An unarmed black teenager named Michael Brown was fatally shot Saturday by a police officer in suburban St. Louis. People protested Saturday, Sunday and Monday, with large crowds of protesters and police facing off multiple times. Some rioting and looting also broke out late Sunday night. The FBI has launched an investigation, but federal authorities will also monitor a separate investigation being carried out by local police.
The circumstances surrounding the shooting are unclear. Police said Saturday that the shooting followed an encounter Saturday afternoon involving a police officer, Brown and another person, but additional confirmed details are scarce. 
Jon Belmar, chief of the St. Louis County police, said the episode began with "a physical confrontation." Belmar did not explain what prompted the confrontation, but he said the officer was pushed back into his squad car during the episode and one shot was fired from the officer's weapon inside the car. Brown was shot multiple times, Belmar said, and all shell casings matched the officer's gun. It's not known yet why the officer shot him or why lethal force was used.
Benjamin Crump, an attorney hired by Brown's family, said Monday evening that witnesses disputed the police account, but he did not elaborate on what those witnesses said occurred. 
Brown was an 18-year-old who recently graduated from high school and had been set to start studies at Vatterott College, a trade school, on Monday.
"He was a good boy," his father, Michael Brown Sr., said Monday. He described his son as fun, silly and always ready to make people laugh.
Authorities have said the shooter was an officer with the Ferguson Police Department. The officer, who has not been identified, has been placed on paid administrative leave.
The FBI is conducting a civil rights investigation, and St. Louis County police are investigating the shooting at the request of the Ferguson Police Department. (Ferguson is part of St. Louis County.) 
The police willsend the results of the investigation to the St. Louis County Attorney's Office for a decision regarding any criminal charges.
Ferguson is a small, predominantly African American city just outside St. Louis. It has about 21,000 residents, and a little more than two-thirds of them are black, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. 
Vigils and protests followed Brown's death. There was an immediate outcry from the community on Saturday after Brown was killed. Some people chanted, "Kill the police," according to witnesses. There were reports of additional shots being fired as dozens of police officers arrived at the scene, but no other injuries were reported. There were additional protests Sunday and Monday. 
Meanwhile, many people used the hashtag #IfTheyGunnedMeDown to show how people in communities far from Ferguson were reacting to the shooting.
On Sunday night, following a candlelight vigil for Brown, some people took to Ferguson's streets, smashing windows and looting stores. A convenience store was set on fire, and a group of men reportedly tried to load an ATM onto a truck.
About 300 officers responded, and 32 people were arrested.Two officers sustained minor injuries.
Missouri Gov. Jay Nixon (D), Sens. Claire McCaskill (D) and Roy Blunt (R), St. Louis Mayor Francis G. Slay and County Executive Charlie A. Dooley have all called for a full investigation.
U.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said the local authorities should "complete a thorough, fair investigation in their own right" even as the FBI carries out an investigation. 
Jamilah Nasheed, a Missouri state senator, called for the officer who killed Brown to be fired and indicted.
mark.berman@washpost.com
