A police spokesman said Wednesday that a man who was fatally shot by two officers in South Los Angeles Monday night during a struggle had attempted to remove a gun from an officer s holster, a preliminary account that conflicts with statements made by the man s family.
Family members told KTLA (Channel 5) on Tuesday that the 25-year-old man, whom they identified as Ezell Ford, was complying with Los Angeles Police Department officers  orders when he was shot. 
LAPD Cmdr. Andrew Smith said Wednesday that two veteran officers from the Newtown Division, who work gang detail, were driving their patrol car in the area of 65th Street and Broadway when they saw the man walking on a sidewalk, stopped their car and exited to talk to him. As the officers approached and made eye contact with the man, he continued to walk  making several suspicious movements, which include an apparent attempt to conceal his hands,  Smith said.
When the officers attempted to stop him at some point, the man spun around, grabbed one of the officers and both the man and the officer fell down to the ground, Smith said. There was then a struggle with the  suspect on top of our officer. 
 We got two officers, one involved in a fight underneath the suspect   the suspect was on top of him,  Smith said.  It appears the suspect was attempting to pull a gun out of the holster. The partner shoots the officer. The officer underneath pulls his backup weapon while holding on to his primary weapon and shoots the suspect. 
Not all of the police department s patrol cars are equipped yet with video cameras and this particular car was not equipped, Smith said. Although a pilot program is underway in the Central Division in which officers are equipped with cameras on their bodies, nothing like that exists in the Newton Division, he said. Both officers were assigned home duty until the chief can made a decision on their status, which is expected to happen today, he said.
Tritobia Ford, who identified herself as the man s mother, told KTLA Tuesday that her son was lying on the ground, complying with the officers  commands, when he was shot three times.
 My heart is so heavy,  she said.  My son was a good kid. He didn t deserve to die the way he did. 
A man who identified himself only as a cousin told the TV station there was no reason for the  excessive force. 
 They laid him out and for whatever reason, they shot him in the back, knowing mentally, he has complications,  the man said.  Every officer in this area, from the Newton Division knows that   that this child has mental problems. 
Earl Ofari Hutchinson of the Los Angeles Urban Roundtable, who along with other civil rights leaders has called for a meeting with Chief Charlie Beck over the matter, said he wants an investigation that is  swift, speedy, fair and impartial and most importantly transparent. 
 Typically, these investigations drag on weeks and weeks and months on months,  Hutchinson said.  We are not interested in that. 
In light of the fatal shooting of unarmed teen Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., a man killed by a police offer s chokehold after allegedly selling black market cigarettes in New York and the beating of Marlene Pinnock by a CHP officer in Los Angeles   in which all the victims were black    there has to be a sense of urgency,  he said.
A protest organized by those concerned about the shooting is slated for 3 p.m. Sunday at Police Department headquarters at 100 W. First St., according to a Facebook page .
