Five days after a police officer shot 18-year-old Michael Brown dead in St Louis, police have yet to cast any light on the killing or even name the officer who pulled the trigger.
In the official silence more witnesses have come forward to corroborate the grim story first told by the young man Mr Brown was with when he died, 22-year-old Dorian Johnson.
According to Mr Johnson, the two young men were walking along a street in the suburb of Ferguson, a small community with its own police force, when officers in a pick-up truck rolled past and ordered them to "get the f--- on the sidewalk". Mr Johnson says the officer leaned out of the window and grabbed Mr Brown around the neck. The two wrestled, a gun discharged and the boys ran. 
Police confirm that Mr Brown's body fell 10 metres from the truck. Mr Johnson says Mr Brown was hit once, turned and raised his hands only to be shot several more times.
On Wednesday Tiffany Mitchell, who was driving past as the incident happened, appeared on CNN with her lawyer and said that she observed Mr Brown trying to pull away from the officer as they grappled through the window before running down the road.
"As he runs the police gets out of his vehicle and he follows behind him shooting and the kid's body jerked as if he was hit from behind.
"And he turned around and he puts his hands up ... and the cop continues to fire until he dropped down to the ground and his face just smacks into the concrete."
Each night since Saturday crowds have gathered and police have responded with arrests, tear-gas and rubber bullets. On Wednesday night the nation was shocked by images of police SWAT teams, indistinguishable from combat troops, training weapons on peaceful protesters.
Many believe that the police response to the shooting has provoked the continuing tension.
They say Mr Brown's body was left in the street for four hours after he died and no ambulance was called. Ms Mitchell told CNN that when his grieving family arrived they were given no details about what had happened. When she tried to tell them what she saw, police sought to prevent her, she said.
On Tuesday US President Barack Obama addressed the tensions, offering condolences to Mr Brown's family and calling on the community to "comfort each other and talk with one another in a way that heals, not in a way that wounds".
It is impossible to exaggerate how seriously the US takes the spectre of race riots.
In The New York Times on Thursday, columnist Charles Blow captured the sense of despair the incident has provoked among many African-Americans.
"There is an eerie echo in it all - a sense of tragedy too often repeated. And yet the sheer morbid, wrenching rhythm of it belies a larger phenomenon ... The criminalisation of black and brown bodies - particularly male ones - from the moment they are first introduced to the institutions and power structures with which they must interact," he wrote.
After his officers again met protesters with tear-gas on Wednesday night, St Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar congratulated them for their work.
"We are doing the best we can to protect life and property, and while it looks remarkable, perhaps, to people across the nation, it should be noted that no protester has been injured and only one police officer was injured, and he suffered a twisted ankle," he said.
Cold comfort to Michael Brown's family.
