Limmie Greg Curry III's defense attorney made clear Wednesday that certain facts are not lost on him: His client is a black man accused of murdering a white man, and his case is being heard by an all-white jury.
"That can be a very bad position to be in, obviously," Jeffrey Fletcher told the jury during his closing argument, which lasted more than two and a half hours spread over two days. "... For us to ignore the subject like it's not relevant in this trial would be wrong."
Fletcher's comments -- and his plea to jurors to hear the case impartially and protect Curry's rights -- came amid a general condemnation of the prosecution's case. Wednesday, Fletcher accused Curry's associates of framing him, witnesses of perjuring themselves, prosecutors of pursuing a conviction without regard to the truth and police officers of abusing their positions of trust in the community.
Curry, 22, stands accused of murdering 46-year-old William Reid on Feb. 3, 2010 at Reid's rural property off of State Route 299 near Willow Creek. Prosecutors allege that Curry shot and killed Reid before burning his corpse and burying his charred skeletal remains at the site of an old marijuana growing operation on the property. 
The crime was allegedly carried out for the purpose of financial gain, as prosecutors believe Curry intended to take over Reid's property and his marijuana cultivation and distribution business.
Reid's roommate, Eddie David Lee, 24, also stands accused of the murder and is scheduled to stand trial in January. Like Curry, he has pleaded not guilty to charges related to Reid's death.
In his closing argument -- which began Tuesday and concluded Wednesday -- Fletcher told jurors that evidence in the case clearly indicates that it was Eddie Lee who killed Reid, and that he then worked to set Curry up to take the fall for the crime.
"This is Eddie Lee," Fletcher told jurors, holding up a photograph. "He is the one responsible for this case."
Fletcher said evidence in the case shows it was Eddie Lee who coached his girlfriend Mariah Foster and his friend Andrew Buck on how to testify in the case. And, most importantly, Fletcher said he also instructed Jessica Lee -- Eddie Lee's sister and Curry's girlfriend -- to testify that Curry confessed to her that he killed Reid.
Eddie Lee also worked to deposit evidence from Reid's house -- including a big screen television, video gaming consoles and a pair of pistols -- at Curry's apartment.
"This is a setup," Fletcher said. "It's sad, but it's a setup."
Fletcher said his client was a student at College of the Redwoods who was concentrating on going to school and was completely unaware of Reid's murder. Fletcher further argued that his client didn't know Reid, had limited access to his property and, in the days after prosecutors believe Reid was killed, didn't act like someone who had committed murder.
Fletcher said that the only reason the case has progressed to this point -- where a jury is now poised to decide Curry's fate -- is that investigators and prosecutors have willfully ignored or even distorted evidence, operating under a mantra of "because they say it, it is so."
The prosecution in this case called more than two dozen witnesses and introduced more than 600 items of evidence, Fletcher said, and nothing but the testimony of Jessica Lee links Curry to Reid's death.
And, Fletcher argued, Jessica Lee admitted on the stand that she repeatedly lied to investigators about the case and testified that she was telling the truth about certain things for the first time on the stand.
"If someone has lied for three years, you have to have a reasonable doubt as to whether they are telling the truth now," Fletcher said.
In a brief rebuttal argument, Humboldt County District Attorney Paul Gallegos said Jessica Lee's testimony is corroborated by statements the jury heard from the defendant himself. Gallegos pointed to recordings of a pair of phone calls Curry made from jail -- one to Jessica Lee and the other to his mother -- after his arrest on an outstanding warrant the day after Reid's alleged murder.
In the call to Jessica Lee, Curry asks if police found his "BB gun" while searching his apartment, following the question by asking his girlfriend if she knows what he means. Gallegos said Curry is clearly speaking in code, and argued he was really inquiring about a pair of pistols that officers later found under his mattress and believe were used in the murder. In the other call -- which was placed on Feb. 5, 2010 -- Curry tells his mom that he just got a house out in Blue Lake two days earlier, which Gallegos argued was a reference to Reid's property that helps corroborate Jessica Lee's testimony.
Toward the end of his closing statement, Fletcher brought up the subject of race and asked jurors in the case how they might feel if they were innocent and found themselves looking at an all-black jury.
"What you would want is people who would fight for you and your rights," Fletcher said.
Fletcher then made a reference to the recent acquittal of George Zimmerman by a Florida jury in the 2012 shooting death of Trayvon Martin.
"What hurts me is an unarmed, innocent person was killed and a jury said it was OK," Fletcher said, after making clear he has no issue with stand-your-ground self defense laws.
The defense attorney then said he has confidence in Curry's jury because he went through the process of choosing each juror and made a point in that selection process of asking each of them about the topics of race and defendants' rights.
"It was beautiful to hear you speak," Fletcher said. "I loved it and I believed it. And, now is the test of it."
Fletcher went on to quote the Declaration of Independence in urging the jury to defend Curry's rights and set "this young man free," sending a message to the District Attorney's Office that these types of prosecutions "will not be tolerated."
In his rebuttal argument, Gallegos said that if this jury decides this case based on race, or the outcome of another trial, it would be an outrage.
Gallegos then retrieved a photograph of Reid and held it up for the jury.
"All men, regardless of race, are endowed with certain unalienable rights, and one of these is not to be murdered," Gallegos said.
Jurors are expected to receive a final legal instruction from the judge this morning before beginning deliberations in Curry's case.
Thadeus Greenson can be reached at 441-0509tgreenson@times-standard.com
