TUNIS, Tunisia -- Angry anti-government demonstrations broke out Thursday across Tunisia after gunmen killed the leader of a leftist opposition party, raising fears of new chaos on the difficult road to democracy in the cradle of the Arab Spring.
Just five months after a similar assassination plunged the country into crisis, two gunmen shot Mohammed Brahmi, leader of the Popular Current party, in his car outside his home.
Tunisia is struggling after overthrowing dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011.
Many Tunisians are fed up with the government led by the moderate Islamist ruling party, Ennahda, which appears unable to handle a faltering economy, address popular unrest over unmet expectations and crack down on a rising extremist Islamist movement. 
Protesters immediately blamed the latest killing on the government. Soon after news broke, crowds gathered outside the Interior Ministry in the heart of Tunis calling for its downfall.
The country's largest trade unions called for a general strike Friday.
HPV vaccine rate disappoints officials
ATLANTA -- Only about half of U.S. teenage girls have gotten a controversial cervical cancer vaccine -- a rate that's changed little in three years.
"We're dropping the ball," said Dr. Thomas Frieden, head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "This is a huge disappointment."
About 54 percent of teenage girls have received at least one of the three HPV shots. Only a third were fully immunized with all three doses.
Last year's rates were essentially unchanged from 2011, and up only slightly from 2010. Rates for other vaccines aimed at adolescents have risen much faster.
A big part of the reason: Family doctors aren't prodding patients to get HPV shots as forcefully as they recommend other vaccines, health officials said.
Zimmerman juror wanted conviction
ORLANDO, Fla. -- The second juror to speak publicly told ABC News in an interview made available Thursday that she feels that George Zimmerman got away with murder for fatally shooting Trayvon Martin, but that there wasn't enough evidence at trial to convict him under Florida law.
Juror B29 told Robin Roberts that she favored convicting Zimmerman of second-degree murder when deliberations began by the six-member, all-women jury.
"I was the juror that was going to give them a hung jury," she said. "I fought to the end."
But by the second day of deliberating, she realized there wasn't enough proof to convict the 29-year-old neighborhood watch volunteer of a crime.
"George Zimmerman got away with murder, but you can't get away from God," she said. "And at the end of the day, he's going to have a lot of questions and answers he has to deal with."
China's leaders will put Bo Xilai on trial
BEIJING -- Deposed politician Bo Xilai will go on trial on charges of corruption and abuse of power within weeks, wrapping up a festering scandal that China's new leaders want disposed of as they cement their authority.
Bo, 64, was a rising political star who ran the metropolis of Chongqing until he fell from power last year in a scandal that saw his wife convicted of killing a British businessman.
On Thursday, the official Xinhua News Agency announced that he was charged with bribery, embezzlement and abuse of power and will stand trial in the eastern city of Jinan.
For months, Bo has been the unfinished business of China's political transition, with questions over his fate casting a shadow over the Communist Party's new leaders under Xi Jinping.
Korean factory park negotiations fail
SEOUL, South Korea -- North Korea on Thursday threatened to re-station troops at a stalled inter-Korean factory park just across the tense border separating the two Koreas, as minor scuffles reportedly broke out between delegates from the rivals after failed talks meant to restart the complex.
Pyongyang has warned Seoul before that it would bring back the military units that were stationed at the North Korean border city of Kaesong before the factory park was set up there in 2004 during a previous period of detente between the rivals.
Analysts said the latest threat was an effort to pressure Seoul to agree to a quick reopening of the industrial complex, which provided badly needed hard currency to Pyongyang. The complex was shut in April amid dueling threats of war following U.N. sanctions against North Korea's February nuclear test.
WWII airman's remains returned
ALBANY, N.Y. -- The remains of a World War II airman have been identified and will be returned to his hometown for burial, nearly 70 years after his plane and two others slammed into a remote, jungle-covered mountainside in the South Pacific.
DNA samples provided by relatives matched that of Sgt. Dominick Licari, who was 31 when his A-20 Havoc bomber crashed into a mountain in Papua-New Guinea on March 13, 1944.
Augustus "Mort" Licari said Thursday that he and his only other surviving sibling, Katherine Frank of Darien, Conn., were notified last week that their brother's bone fragments and dog tags were recovered last year at the crash site by a team from the U.S. Joint POW-MIA Accounting Command.
Psychopaths can exhibit empathy
Hannibal Lecter can probably feel for his victims, but only if you ask him.
A brain-imaging study of 18 violent, psychopathic criminals in the Netherlands, the largest such study undertaken, suggests they can summon empathy when prompted.
The report, published Wednesday in the journal Brain, showed that empathic circuits that are unconsciously activated in the brains of normal people may be dormant or switched off in psychopaths -- not absent, as commonly thought. Those circuits, the study showed, can be activated after psychopaths are prompted to see a situation from someone else's point of view.
"They do have empathy; it's just that it's not always on," said neuroscientist Christian Keysers of the Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, lead author of the study, undertaken in Groningen, Netherlands.
O.J. Simpson asks board for leniency
CARSON CITY, Nev. -- O.J. Simpson went before a parole board and pleaded for leniency on his armed robbery and kidnapping sentence Thursday as he expressed regret for his actions and described being an upstanding inmate who earns pennies an hour keeping gym equipment sanitized and umpiring and coaching games in the prison yard.
Simpson also said he has become a counselor of sorts to fellow inmates doing time for similar crimes and noted that he has made amends with his victims in a botched heist of memorabilia in a hotel room in Las Vegas in 2007.
"I just wish I never went to that room," the 66-year-old Simpson said during a 15-minute appearance.
He is eligible for parole on only some of his concurrent sentences for various convictions. Even if the parole board ruled in his favor, he would have to spend at least another four years behind bars.
Militants kill 42 in attacks across Iraq
BAGHDAD -- Emboldened militants in Iraq set up their own checkpoint to kill drivers and bombed crowded cafes Thursday in the deadliest of a series of attacks that killed at least 42 people, authorities said.
More than 550 people have been killed in violent attacks so far this month, according to an Associated Press count, as violence continues during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. The speaker of Iraqi parliament even has acknowledged that insecurity in the nation likely will get worse after a massive al-Qaida-claimed prison break freed hundreds of inmates.
The deadliest attack Thursday happened when a bomb exploded inside a crowded cafe north of Baghdad, killing 16 diners and wounding 20.
-- Associated Press, Los Angeles Times
