Trustee's record insufficient
When Monterey Peninsula College was forced to vote by districts instead of at-large, the dissenting voices were concerned that some districts may find it difficult securing candidates. That is exactly what has occurred in Marina, where the sitting trustee has attended only one board meeting in person in 2013.
Further, her attendance during her 3-year tenure is abominable (you can look it up). Although the district has gone out of its way to provide a telephonic hook-up during meetings, she misses all the interaction with the audience. Further, she has also not attended closed-session meetings where personnel items are discussed. In addition, the lawsuit she filed in 2011 for damages due to a fall in a dance class (medical insurance is provided by the college for all trustees) is still pending. 
How does a trustee vote on budget matters, a primary responsibility, while a lawsuit against her own board is in progress?
For the benefit of the students, faculty and staff of our wonderful community college, we urge the good citizens of Marina to find a citizen with good judgment to run for the MPC board.
Jim Tunney, Lynn Davis and Charlie Pageformer MPC trustees
Ineffective representative
I retired two years ago after working 27 years at Monterey Peninsula College. At the time of my retirement, I had been a faculty program coordinator since 1989.
MPC employees are not allowed to publicly comment on board elections. As a retiree, I no longer have that constraint.
I am in complete agreement with the three former trustees concerning Margaret-Anne Coppernoll.
I live in the Marina district and will admit that I voted for her during her first candidacy. My mistake! Coppernoll has been an embarrassment from the beginning. She has been an ineffective representative.
Due to her physical absence from many meetings since 2011, she has not been completely engaged in the budget issues affecting the school's focus and direction given the new directives from the state. I am also appalled by her lawsuit. This seems to be an extreme conflict of interest on her part.
Marina and Seaside fought for representation on the board. The Marina district deserves a trustee who is fully engaged and has studied the issues facing the school. I hope another candidate will come forward. I would not support her run for re-election.
Marilyn TownsendMarina
Race is too often a factor
I am genuinely saddened and disappointed by the recent events that have led me to think about the issue of race in this country. From the TrayvonMartin/George Zimmerman fallout to the attack on the Voting Rights Act in the southern states, it is clear that, regardless of the fact that we elected an African-American president, race is still a factor in how we treat our fellow man.
You have to wonder about the viability of a species that is so short-sighted that it measures the quality of a person not by their thoughts and actions but by the amount of melanin in their skin. Not only are we the only planetary animals that randomly kill each other out of something other than raw survival, apparently we are also the ones that simply can't get past something as superficial as how a person looks in our dealings with each other.
I am truly, deeply, worried for us all.
Olga ChandlerMarina
Shooting arrows from ivory towers
I don't think any reasonable person feels good about the George Zimmerman/TrayvonMartin debacle. A boy is dead and the man who killed him is the only person who knows the truth. I think Zimmerman had no business carrying a gun and acting out cop fantasies. I do not see Zimmerman as a victim of anyone but his own delusional inner world.
Juries are composed of human beings and all of us are fallible and biased in one way or another. Just as the racially-stacked jury acquitted a very guilty O.J. Simpson in 1995, so it is that perhaps there was racial bias in the jurors who acquitted Zimmerman. What's the alternative? Scrap the jury system across America and let equally biased judges decide the fates of the accused? Challenge every single verdict across America where the perpetrators and victims are of different ethnicity? Shall the president of the United States stick his nose into every single trial that involves people of color?
I keep reading poorly conceived and hysterical missives in The Herald from both sides of this issue but nobody has proposed a flawless alternative to our inherently flawed jury system. Shooting arrows from ivory towers solves nothing.
Jeffrey Van MiddlebrookPacific Grove
U.S. not guided by fanaticism
Arlen Grossman seems to equate our misguided wars in the Middle East with worldwide Islamic terrorism (July 27).
Does this explain or justify bombing trains in Spain, hotels in Bali or bombs in Boston?
We have made serious errors but it is not religious fanaticism that guides us. One hundred thousand people were killed in Syria in a sectarian civil war without American involvement.
Explain that.
Gil SteinSalinas
Don't hide cancer
Cancer is a major illness. Society and those affected by cancer, in general, should not hide the illness from the general public.
Respected people within the community should not be embarrassed or have something to be ashamed about when diagnosed with cancer. In contrast, poor people who are dying from cancer are never in the limelight and are easily forgotten by others.
Personally, I am lucky to be alive.
Cancer was my wake-up call. My mission would be an inspiration for others affected by this illness. Perhaps, study medicine and become the Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula badly needed colostomy educator specifically for men.
It is amazing how many Monterey Peninsula residents are treated at Pacific Cancer Care and we will be a force to reckon with.
Ring the bell!
Joseph Aiello Jr.Monterey
