The great mythology of America, of rags to riches, is statistically more likely to happen here
TEARING down the highway to New York City, we take a turn off looking for a cheap motel.
Instead, we find ourselves driving along North Street, Greenwich, one of the wealthiest streets in the wealthiest town in the wealthiest country in the world.
There are definitely no rooms for rent in these mega mansions. 
If you've got a cool $US10 million ($A10.79 million) you can secure an entry-level home in the region with six bedrooms and seven bathrooms set on 5ha. Sure, the Aussie dollar is good, but it's not that good.
This is Greenwich, in the state of Connecticut, about half an hour's drive north of New York and home to America's finance overlords, it's old wealth and its richest celebrities.
This is the American dream. On steroids. Frankly, it's obscene.
One of things I've always admired about Americans is their ability to dream big. Their spirit of optimism, confidence and entrepreneurship is unique in the world. And it couldn't be any further from our Aussie spirit, which tears down tall poppies and generally takes harshly to anyone seen to big-note themselves.
Americans dream big. And they fall hard. The US economy has been in, or at the edge of, recession since its housing and credit boom imploded in 2008 causing the global financial crisis. American families have watched their real incomes go backwards. Unemployment remains near 8 per cent.
While on holiday there, we heard the news that the mayor of Detroit has declared that city bankrupt, its debts so high they will never be repaid. The population of Detroit has shrunk by a quarter since the car industry began to close its doors.
But by far the biggest news story in America while we are there was of the trial and acquittal of a man charged of racially profiling and shooting dead a young black man, Trayvon Martin, in Florida. We watch on TV as President Obama gives a heartfelt press conference calling for calm, while sorrowfully admitting, as a black man, it could just have easily been him a few decades ago.
Another US president, in another time, declared ``all men are created equal''. In principle, that's true. In practice, the US has a long way to go.
Surveys of income mobility reveal that for all the rhetoric of being a ``land of opportunity'', America's poor have less chance of becoming rich than Australia's poor do.
The great mythology of America, of rags to riches, is statistically more likely to happen here. Australia: the land of the free.
A 2007 study by economist and federal Labor MP Andrew Leigh found the income of Australian sons are less determined by their father's pay packet than American sons.
Not only is Australia home to less extremes of wealth and poverty, it is also easier for Australians to move between the two.
Australia has managed to achieve this despite our high influx of migration. In America, about one in 10 citizens were born overseas. In Australia, it's one in four. We have managed to absorb great waves of immigrants and come out the stronger for it.
It's harder to look at a person in the street in Australia and know, just by their ethnicity or the colour of their skin, how rich they are. According to the study by Leigh, it is this difference in the income mobility of immigrants in Australia that makes us so much more mobile than Americans.
Of course, we've got our own obscenely rich people too. But there are fewer of them.
And that's just how I like it. I'm proud to live in a country where the circumstances of your birth are less likely to determine the circumstances of your life.
We're not perfect in Australia but I wouldn't want to live anywhere else in the world.
