Every now and then, something truly historic occurs. President Obama's surprise visit Friday to the White House briefing room to offer remarks on race was such a case.
Obama has treaded lightly throughout his career this issue. Because he speaks of race so infrequently, his words and experience carry extra weight when he chooses to go there. Friday, one could sense the burden he felt as he offered the country heartfelt views born of personal experience.
Obama was asking Americans to see the Zimmerman case through a different lens. He said, "It's important to recognize that the African-American community is looking at this through a set of experiences and a history that -- that doesn't go away." 
Black context
What is this experience and history? The president spoke in deeply personal terms about how it feels to live in a society that looks at you as a criminal when you have done nothing more than be a black man. He lamented a justice system that likely would not have extended the same benefit of doubt to TrayvonMartin that George Zimmerman received. I'll add that if Martin had Zimmerman's record -- an arrest for violence against a police officer and a restraining order for domestic violence -- there is no question he would have been arrested on the spot and cast as a dangerous thug.
Many white Americans don't want to hear this. They prefer to pretend that justice is blind and racism is ancient history.
Never mind that there are African Americans alive today who grew up under segregation and another generation who grew up hearing about it from their parents. If Emmett Till had not been tortured and murdered at age 14 by two white men (who were later acquitted) he'd be just shy of his 72nd birthday. This is not ancient history. When the president said "there's a lot of pain" in the African-American community over the Zimmerman verdict, he was being typically understated.
Conservative anger
But "the Zimmerman case was not about race" is the claim emanating from conservatives angry about Obama's remarks. This is absurd.
We've been told that the reason Zimmerman was angry and spitting expletives when he called the police was because there had been burglaries by young black men in the neighborhood. So how was Martin's race not a factor? The fact that the mostly white jury heard this and still believed race was not relevant is unfortunately not particularly surprising.
Just exactly how bad are white Americans at seeing racism against African Americans? The Grio website ran a story with this sobering flashback: "In 1963, almost two-thirds of white Americans told Gallup that blacks were treated equally in their communities in regard to employment, housing and education. And in 1962, 94% said black children had just as good a chance to get a good education as white children." This, despite the fact that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was not yet law and only became law over the objections of viciously racist politicians.
Martin's parents expressed gratitude for Obama's comments, saying that the president "sees himself in Trayvon and identifies with him." Perhaps Obama's remarks will help more Americans -- regardless of their race -- to do the same.
Kirsten Powers is a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors, a Fox News political analyst and a columnist for The Daily Beast. 
