Wednesday July 24, 2013
I've stayed mum on a number of hot button topics lately. Honestly, my silence has more to do with exhaustion from feeling like I was being drawn into another web of constantly verbally reacting, feeling upset amidst the reinforced powerlessness in regards to what is happening in the world. There were some issues that I was just afraid of commenting about due to the strong reactions and commentary that already existed. There was also the reality of not wanting to add yet another platform to the things that were already being looped into heavy rotation. The latest Paula Deen incident was in my "stay silent" bin. However, I wanted to at least comment very briefly about it while reflecting upon the observation I have about my growing social apathy. 
Fresh after the Paula Deen racial debacle last month, I remember talking to a friend on the phone asking, "What's up with this Paula Deen thing?" At this point, all I knew about the incident was the fact that she was fired from the food network in the midst of accusations over the use of racial slurs. My friend answered "Oh, I guess she used the Nword and now she is in trouble for it," in a nonchalant, straightforward tone. "Oh," I responded as we moved onto another topic as if we were just commenting about the weather. In my mind, I connected this incident to the Don Imus scandal and immediately felt that firing did not necessarily address or fix the problem of racism. In fact, forcing the offender who has expressed racist sentiment to go into hiding or step away from the public spotlight is taking away the opportunity for dialogue and open discussion about that which makes us most uncomfortable-race.
No. This is not in defense of Paula Deen or anyone else who has been in her position. I don't really know Paula Deen as a public figure and to be honest I don't really care to. I've long known of her name and I event contributed to her empire by purchasing an oversized Paula Deen blue cooking pot some time ago. This instead is about a noticing of my feelings or lack thereof about her use of racial slurs. I've noticed incidents like these over the years hit the media and cause temporary outrage among some. Then you have the reaction among others like myself with a certain level of cultural numbness while holding a bag of apathy in a lackadaisical stupor. My reactions to many things in regards to current race relations in this country forces me to question why I bring a shoulder shrug to the situation as opposed to wanting to encourage individuals to be more accountable and responsible for their behavior. Do we expect so little of each other that we will automatically assume the worse especially when it is connected to race or anything else in this country?
Case in point: In the recent Trayvon Martin case decision, a number of friends (myself included) said the following, "It is Florida. Are we really surprised?" How will we expect things to get better if we are not really doing anything to encourage better behavior? Instead, many like myself have been so accustomed to the moral/ethical low bar that instead of calling anyone to rise above, we are just mildly appeased when they pretend that they do.
That evening, during the course of the conversation with my friend about the Paula Deen incident, I exclaimed, "Are we really surprised that a southern white woman has been throwing around racial slurs?" In fact, I went on to say that I thought everyone, even the most politically correct among us, used their most private and sacred moments to commit verbal assaults upon any racial, gender, religious, or other groups. In my mind, the homes, hushed corners, or safe space among friends provided the right moment for individuals to think out loud through statements, assumptions, and jokes that one just can't say in polite company. The laws against discrimination due to race, gender, religion, ableism, etc., never changed what resided in the hearts and minds of some. This is the true source of my lack of surprise or minimized shock every time a racial slur is slung or a life is taken within the context of assumptions about race.
This of course makes me guilty of contributing to the problem rather than being motivated enough to do something about it. Perhaps it illustrates a deeper level of sad-but-true acceptance of my reality as a woman of color in America as I've come to navigate the realities of race, class, gender, education, and so many other "isms" that are inevitably tagged to my person. The navigation of this reality extends to my feelings that the powers that be who make the decisions to fire individuals for their racial slurs are also the ones who may go home and commit their own offenses. I also write this piece outing myself as someone who has and does commit my share of verbal/mental offenses as I walk the spiritual tight rope of "right" speech or "right" thinking. Often, I fail miserably at my attempts as I lend a chuckle to myself while recovering from my stumbled attempts. While I still have not figured out what all of this means for myself, I know that we are all guilty of playing along that spectrum especially in regards to many taboo topics of the day. We just never got publicly caught committing the offenses.
Shanta Crowley writes from Brattleboro. You can follow her writing at www.Reformer802.com.
