I'm hoping that most of the folks wound up about the Trayvon Martin/George Zimmerman affair have gotten it out of their systems by now. Because there are few letters-to-the-editor topics that have been tougher to handle, with the possible exception the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
In the past couple of weeks, I have been called a racist, a censor, an "Obama lover," a propagandist and a Nazi. I have been accused of promoting bigotry, conspiring to kill the First Amendment, conspiring with the gun lobby and hanging out with the ACLU. 
Much of the criticism was hurled by those whose letters we wouldn't run. Some came from others upset about those we did run. And, unfortunately, I don't think anything worthwhile came from any of it.
Since Zimmerman's acquittal, most of the letters to The Herald have applauded or criticized the verdict, but most didn't stop there. Many went on to criticize those who felt differently, and the purpose of quite a few of them seemed to be to provoke and diminish those who felt differently.
Until earlier this year, my duties as editor included editing and processing the letters to the editor. It was surprisingly time consuming, so earlier this year I cajoled another newsroom employee, Clark Coleman, to take over.
Either out of conscientiousness or foolishness, I have continued reviewing most of the letters on some days and I often make the decision on which will or won't run.
It can be a difficult job (yes, I'd like some cheese with my whine). That's mainly because I'm a First Amendment guy. I'm big on giving people an opportunity to express themselves. And sometimes, I'm too big on that.
Some of the letters   on both sides, but especially from the Zimmerman supporters   have gone too far in ascribing suspect motivations. Some have been borderline racist against people of various shades, and some have simply been mean. Most of those went into the shredder, but some made their way into the paper. If someone recalls having seen any that actually contained a good idea about eliminating racial tensions, I'd love to be reminded.
All in all, it has been a depressing experience.
As I was sprouting into my teenage years a half century ago, I lived in the South for a time. There were drinking fountains labeled "colored," separate but distinctly unequal. I went to an integrated elementary school and a segregated middle school. When our school played our all-black rival in football, the people in our stands chanted racist taunts across the field. Security guards were posted strategically to make sure those on the other side didn't get uppity about it.
Fifty years later and the Martin/Zimmerman affair shows that we're still idiots when it comes to race. There are many among us who believe that most black teenagers are criminals, that most Latinos are gangsters. There are quite a few blacks and Latinos who distrust almost all white people.
We're still idiots about race and some among us felt it was a good idea to prove it by writing letters to the editor.
I was hoping for a debate about "stand your ground" laws and about jury selection, gun control, concealed weapons laws, consciousness-raising programs, successful efforts to combat racism in the schools.
What we got was accusations of hypocrisy, favoritism, immaturity, posturing and profiteering. The president got accused of intolerance, jurors got accused of stupidity and I got accused of being a bad person, both generally and specifically.
Rather than discussing the issues, letter writers seemed to want to create a contest. Some wanted to prove the black perspective wrong. Some wanted to prove the whites wrong.
Few wanted to learn about anyone else. Most seemed to feel that they spoke the truth and that opposing views didn't deserve their attention.
All in all, it has been a depressing experience.
Royal Calkins is editor of The Herald.
