 CUTLINES A police photo shows a car that has been converted into a driveable pool in Eibenstock, eastern Germany. Four people fled into a nearby river when a police officer stopped the car, which an official said "probably didn't have a road permit." Courtesy/AP - Orlando, Fla.: Zimmerman got away with murder, juror says The second juror to speak publicly told ABC News in an interview made available Thursday that she feels George Zimmerman got away with murder for fatally shooting Trayvon Martin, but that there wasn't enough evidence at trial to convict him. Juror B29 told Robin Roberts that she favored convicting Zimmerman of second-degree murder when deliberations began by the six-member jury.  
But by the second day of deliberating, she realized there wasn't enough proof to convict the 29-year-old neighborhood watch volunteer of a crime. "George Zimmerman got away with murder, but you can't get away from God," she said. " Baghdad: Cafe bombings, attacks kill at least 42 in Iraq Emboldened militants in Iraq set up their own checkpoint to kill drivers and bombed crowded cafes Thursday in the deadliest of a series of attacks that killed at least 42 people, authorities said. More than 550 people have been killed in violent attacks so far this month, according to an Associated Press count, as violence continues during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. Tunis, Tunisia: Death of opposition leader sparks protests Angry anti-government demonstrations broke out Thursday across Tunisia after gunmen killed the leader of a leftist opposition party, raising fears of new chaos on the difficult road to democracy in the cradle of the Arab Spring. Just five months after a similar assassination plunged the country into crisis, two gunmen shot Mohammed Brahmi, leader of the Popular Current party, in his car near his home. Protesters immediately blamed the latest killing on the government. Soon after news broke, crowds gathered outside the Interior Ministry in the heart of Tunis calling for its downfall. Cairo: Egypt braces for day of rival rallies on Friday Political allies of Egypt's military lined up behind its call for huge rallies Friday to show support for the country's top general, pushing toward a collision with Islamist opponents demanding the return of the nation's ousted president. Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi, who ousted President Mohammed Morsi on July 3, took many by surprise when he announced he wanted people to take to the streets in large numbers on Friday to give him a popular mandate to take the necessary measures against "violence and terrorism." Pro-Morsi Islamists also plan rallies on Friday, raising the possibility of street clashes. Lac-Megantic, Quebec: Canada police raid offices of railway company Police raided the Canadian office of a U.S. railway company to collect evidence in a criminal investigation related to an oil train derailment this month that devastated a Quebec town and killed 47 people. Quebec provincial police inspector Michel Forget said Thursday that officers are searching the offices of Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway to collect undisclosed evidence. Boston: Businessman says Bulger put shotgun in his mouth A real estate developer on Thursday described a harrowing encounter with James "Whitey" Bulger, recounting how the reputed gangster shoved a shotgun in his mouth and threatened to kill him if he did not pay $200,000. Richard Buccheri described the 1986 meeting while testifying in the racketeering trial of Bulger Among the homicides in which Bulger has been implicated is the 1981 slaying of Tulsa businessman Roger Wheeler, 55, chairman of Telex Corp. Kelly told Judge Denise Casper that prosecutors plan to wrap up their case against Bulger following testimony from two more witnesses. SUBHEAD: Cool car news briefs 
