Tampa Bay Rays
Last Friday night, the Rays reached first place in the very competitive American League East. The Rays begin a five-game homestand tonight. Will the Tampa Bay community come out and show its support? This team and ownership group have provided us with what few cities have: an exciting and very successful baseball season. Will this area demonstrate that we deserve them?
The Clutch Hitters of Tampa Bay, a group of regional businessmen and women, have a mission to support the Rays in a meaningful way and hence challenge the baseball fans and business community of Tampa Bay to attend games for the rest of the season. It is time for this region to demonstrate that we deserve the Rays. For example, take advantage of the Rays' Wednesday ticket deal - buy a ticket and take a kid for only $2! 
Cheer on these heroes as they outplay the opposition into October. It starts now. The past is the past. Make the effort to be there. Strap yourself in because it will be a heck of a ride. See you there.
Robert P. Byelick, chairman, Clutch Hitters of Tampa Bay, St. Petersburg
* * *
Scott stands ground on law - July 29
Increase in homicides
An April 2013 article in the American Bar Association Journal refers to research done by Texas A&M professor Mark Hoekstra about the "stand your ground" laws. His analysis covered 21 states where some form of this law is in place. He found that homicide rates increased by about 8 percent. It would appear that this law tends to embolden those who carry weapons, legally or illegally.
George Zimmerman knew he was armed; did Trayvon Martin have the same knowledge? If Zimmerman knew that he had a duty to retreat, would he have even followed Martin and engaged or stopped him? We'll never know, but the statistics do show an increasing homicide rate where these laws have been enacted.
Mark Brandt, Dunedin
* * *
'Zimmerman got away with murder' - July 26
Prejudging the case
In this article, it is obvious that juror B-29 tried the case before it began, trying her best to support her position. She should never have allowed herself to be on the jury.
Art McClelland, St. Petersburg
* * *
Everyone, meet George - July 25
Commonwealth realities
Recently, there has been rather too much coverage about the British royal couple and the birth of the heir to the British throne. Not many feel the royal connection.
The queen of England is head of state and constitutional monarch of 16 members out of 53 free and equal member nations of the Commonwealth. She is not the queen of the Commonwealth; she has the title of head of the Commonwealth. Her successor has no automatic right to become head of the Commonwealth.
After the fall of British Empire nearly six decades ago, the British Commonwealth became the Commonwealth of free and equal nations. Even today's Commonwealth is gradually on the path to extinction.
Yeshawant Ginde, Tampa
* * *
City will take another look at recycling
July 26
Trash into energy
Each time the Times writes an article on this subject, this is the message you give to your readers: "St. Petersburg remains the only major Florida city not to offer routine curbside recycling."
The statement implies a disregard for the environment, when in fact the Pinellas County Waste-to-Energy Facility here burns 85 percent of our trash and turns it into energy that powers the facility with the excess is sold to Duke Energy, which in turn powers 45,000 homes and businesses each day. Only 15 percent of our garbage goes to landfill.
In the interest of presenting a balanced article, this fact is relevant to why the city must look at the added cost and carbon footprint in maintaining a fleet of trucks and mandatory routes to recycle 15 percent or less of our trash.
Cliff Cook, St. Petersburg
* * *
Climate change
Renewables produce jobs
I support President Barack Obama's recently announced plan to combat climate change and advance clean energy. The plan calls for reducing carbon pollution from power plants - our largest source of pollution driving climate change - which also harms our health and economy.
We are already seeing the effects of climate change: Storms are becoming more intense, heat waves more severe, drought more persistent and wildfire more prevalent. Superstorm Sandy alone caused more than $1 billion in damages and a loss of life that cannot be quantified.
Rising temperatures also trigger more bad-air days, which are of particular concern for the young, the elderly and those with asthma and other health issues. We can't afford to ignore these costs any longer.
Investing in renewable energy, increased efficiency and pollution controls will create jobs and a more resilient economy. In fact, history has shown when we rein in pollution we get a big bang for our buck. Since 1970 every $1 in investment in compliance with Clean Air Act standards has produced $4 to $8 in economic benefits.
Tara Pearson, Safety Harbor
* * *
San Diego mayor will get therapy - July 27
Morally adrift
Regarding San Diego Mayor Bob Filner's plan for getting two weeks of therapy for his "sexual harassment issues," my question would be: Can a moral compass be installed?
Ilse Yost, Tampa
* * *
Make the most of each day
The older I get, the more I see a lack of morals. Every day I pick up the paper and see corrupt politicians, those with money walking all over people, or people not caring for neighbors.
Everyone has one life, and it's over quicker than you think. I would like to think my life left something good to remember. I know I've made my share of mistakes, so every day I start from scratch and try to be a better person.
Crystal Mackey Buchanan Suggs, Dade City
