Potential conflicts of interest
Just having Lisa Madigan serve as attorney general while her father is House speaker has already created a potential conflict.
 Your recent editorial mentions that even though Speaker Michael Madigan has helped create the pension problem the state is currently experiencing, he is using his political clout to hamper lawmakers from passing pension legislation that is fair and sensible. The legality and ethical aspects of Madigan's proposed legislation also concerns lawmakers who are opposing it.
 If the speaker's so-called "pension reform" legislation is passed, it will be in violation of the Illinois Constitution. One of the main elements of his legislation is to slash or eliminate COLAs (cost-of-living adjustments) which retired state workers have paid for. By doing this, a retiree's pension would be diminished by a third. 
 If any "pension reform" legislation is passed that diminishes pensions earned by retirees, there will be legal action. I cannot help but think that Lisa Madigan would not be favor of violating the Illinois Constitution. Will she forego her principles, if it means going against the powerful speaker?
 Earl Shumaker
 Sycamore
 Others sacrificed to raise Obama
 President Barack Obama said he could have been Trayvon. The president's grandparents moved to Hawaii to raise him, to give him a stable life when his mother could not. They moved from Kansas to Hawaii to raise their grandson and his sister as a family.
 Obama seems to have forgotten the sacrifices others made to give him a normal life. Sadly, Trayvon did not have people who loved him like the Dunhams. I wonder if Madelyn and Stanley Dunham think they raised another Trayvon?
 Jerald Jacobs
 Springfield
 President's remarks were telling
 When the president stated that "TrayvonMartin could have been me 35 years ago," he revealed more about his past than he has since he began his campaign for president.
 We knew he smoked marijuana when he was younger, but I don't think "lean" or "drank" were thought of at that time. I hope he doesn't think that statement is a compliment to TrayvonMartin or himself.
 Mike Carter
 Greenview
 A right is a right &#8212; right?
 Recently there has been much news coverage concerning two of our "constitutional rights," one being the right to vote and the other being the right of our citizens to arm themselves.
 In dealing with the right to vote a number of legislators put forth the motion that voters should have a picture ID to prove they are who they say they are. The opponents of this idea claimed that the "poor" and the "disabled" were being discriminated against inasmuch as they would be unable to afford the cost of the picture and not be able to go to a place to obtain a picture. It appears the opponents have won this battle.
 In dealing with the constitutional right to carry, opponents of this bill, after trying hard to defeat it, offered obstacles designed to make it as hard as possible to obtain a permit to carry. Among them: An applicant must have a background check, pay $150 for the permit application, have a picture ID, complete 16 hours of training (the most in the nation) and wait a long time for approval. If not approved a committee in secret will review the application.
 What do the poor who also might want protection using the concealed carry law do to get a permit? How could the legislators and the governor be so inconsiderate? Where was the "hardship" talk by the opponents when they layered rule upon rule that made concealed carry so difficult? How hypocritical can they be?
 Weldon Stetter
 Cantrall
