Confusion over separation of church and state seems only to have grown after two recent El Paso events that expressed very different views. One group would have us believe that absolute separation is necessary. The other group tells us there is no separation. It's more complex than that.
The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution is directed toward government, not religion. It restricts government in order to safeguard freedom of religion. It doesn't say anything about what religious institutions can or cannot do. 
Some folks think that religion has nothing to say in public. Freedom of religion includes freedom of speech concerning any and all areas of public and private life. Religious groups also have the right to organize politically to promote their views. Party affiliation and campaigning are not, and should not, be part of that.
Those are the limits. Religion has an important role in the life of society. It can help us to reach responsible conclusions and take just action. Whether religious views have an impact and shape civil policy is dependent on whether they are reasonable and support the common good. Some religious views may not fit those criteria and may harbor unjust attitudes. It's up to us all to discern the differences.
Father Ed Carpenter, Central El Paso
Paper misses Obama's speech
I opened this morning's paper and could not find one single mention of President Obama's speech from the day before. The impression this gives is that attempts to do something about jobs and the economy matter as little to the El Paso Times as it does to members of Congress, whose sole goals seem to be obstruction and tearing down government, rather than offering constructive solutions to our nation's problems.
New Times graphics, however well designed, mean little when stories about a royal baby's new name and possible changes in mail delivery take precedence over an important presidential speech.
Juawanna Newman, Lower Valley
Middle class key to republic
"When the people find that they can vote themselves money, that will herald the end of the republic" -- Benjamin Franklin.
Upon initial reading one may assume Franklin's comment pertains to politicians voting themselves money. However, the inclusive -- the people -- suggest a broader meaning.
The people do not, by national referendum, vote to establish, maintain or expand social assistance programs. However, the people do select politicians who promise to establish, expand and maintain programs by which minorities of our population gain a direct or indirect financial benefit. So, in effect, the people do vote themselves money.
As we have witnessed since the inception of the social engineering schemes of the mid-1960s our social services depend-population has grown to 47 percent of our population.
If organized under the flags of ACORN and APPOLO, etc., these have-nots could form a voting bloc capable of demanding a slim majority, 53 percent of our population, and submit to increasing wealth-distributing taxation to the point of complete middle-class destruction.
I think I hear a trumpet heralding the end of our Republic.
Ernest Ellis, Northeast El Paso
County makes good decision
The decision by El Paso County Commissioners Court to add a "plus one qualifying adult" to its health benefit program is a step in the right direction. Not only is such action proper, but it's well-deserving.
We live in an age in which people often prefer to live together before marriage, or not to marry at all. These are practices that do not really impose a burden on anyone else because they take place by mutual consent and do not define anyone else's concept of marriage.
The county ordinance also places the burden of proof as to whether someone should be added to the health program on the county employee, who is obligated to pay for the additional health-care cost as a deduction from wages earned, and who can terminate the health coverage and payroll deduction if the relationship no longer exists.
But the best thing about it is that it eliminates legal challenges from outsiders, such as those faced by ex-El Paso Mayor John Cook, who sought to remove him from office for trying to provide city health service benefits to all city employees on an equal basis.
Hugo H. Bayona, Central El Paso
Zimmerman trial: justice denied
One juror in the George Zimmerman trial said TrayvonMartin should have just walked home. Are you joking? The defendant, Zimmerman, had Trayvon profiled and targeted, otherwise why did he follow him -- stalk him?
Trayvon was scared to death of him. Zimmerman did not identify himself as a law officer or a person of authority
Trayvon reacted in accordance with Florida law -- stand your ground. He was exercising the right to defend himself.
Maria Luisa I. Arrieta, Northeast El Paso
