Gulls unnecessarily protected on Alcatraz
Paul Rogers' article (Page 1A, July 21) on the proliferation of California gulls in the Bay Area citing both danger to planes and smaller endangered birds reminded me of Alcatraz's (listed as a breeding site) protection policies.
As a former resident (my father was an officer) I attend National Park Service functions on Alcatraz several times a year. I noted they close off public access to the eastern portion of the island twice a year. When I asked an NPS ranger why, he replied it is due to the gulls nesting: "They are a protected species." The island is filthy with droppings and feathers both on the ground and accumulating at the bottom of burnt-out buildings. My group, the Alcatraz Alumni Association, was exploring rebuilding the burnt-out, roofless old social hall. An architect, a former resident, drew up plans. He noted the deterioration of the buildings walls was due more to gull urine than salt air. That says a lot and one wonders about the long-term health of the NPS employees and volunteers, many who have been there for decades. 
I subscribe to starting somewhere (breaking eggs plus not sealing off nesting areas) while other options are explored.
Wayne Padgett
Member Alcatraz Alumni Association Daly City
Razing of Willow Glen trestle dishonors past
As someone who grew up in Willow Glen, I'd like to add my voice to the many who oppose the San Jose City Council-approved demolition of the Willow Glen trestle. Structures such as the Willow Glen trestle are important links to the area's past, and once the trestle is gone, it can't be replaced. Shame on our elected officials for making a foolish decision.
June E. Cooley
San Jose
Cartoonists don't know how Obamacare works
The Mercury News showed two political cartoons Sunday that condemned the Republican Party for trying to destroy Obamacare. I will assume the cartoonists are not hard-core Obama supporters but, rather, they are unaware of what's happening with Obamacare.
They may want to read the latest news that some unions, long staunch Obamacare proponents, are warning Obamacare will shatter hard-won medical benefits and encourages employers to reduce workweeks to below 30 hours in order to avoid onerous and costly mandates.
They should read that the White House, not the GOP, seeks a one-year delay in implementing the employer mandate because of the complexity inherent in a 2,000-page bill supported with more than 15,000 pages of regulations.
I suggest they read the Pacific Research Institute analysis of Obamacare, "Myths and Realities of Obamacare."
Jerry Mungai
San Jose
Always being armed an outdated notion
An NRA apologist offered the dubious idea that we citizens have to be armed (with either guns or sabers) wherever we go ("Zimmerman case is no argument against guns," Letters, July 23). Either way, the writer holds out no hope for future TrayvonMartins; he had to be either shot or stabbed. This 19th century attitude is what's getting Americans killed. "Stand your ground" laws and other such absurdities facilitate these wanton killings. The fact that such views are still being promoted shows just how far we yet have to go in ridding our society of the utter nonsense that citizens have to be armed at all times.
Steve M. Zientek
Los Gatos
'Stand your ground' laws should be repealed
It upsets me how very little is being done to repeal or even review the "stand your ground" laws in Florida and other states. Disturbing cases are surfacing of innocent young minorities being murdered with no consequence for the perpetrator -- all because of this law, which allows individuals to use firearms when they "perceive a threat."
Examples of this are the murders of TrayvonMartin and Jordan Davis. Both unarmed black teenagers, both shot down by armed men. The "stand your ground" law encourages trigger-happy behavior among gun-carrying citizens -- and with an already alarming death toll on society's hands, it should be repealed immediately.
Rishabh Singhal
Fremont
Carrying gun might've saved Zimmerman's life
Carla Neumann says, "If George Zimmerman did not have a gun, that young man would be alive."
True, but George Zimmerman might not be.
Wayne Hathaway
Sunnyvale
Tell Obama to block Keystone XL pipeline
I hope President Barack Obama does not once again kowtow to the energy industry and its sycophants in Congress by approving the Keystone XL pipeline.
Keystone would emit at least 181 million metric tons of carbon dioxide annually, the equivalent 38 million cars. The State Department estimates greenhouse gas emissions from tar sands may be exceed emissions from average crude oil refined in the U.S. by 22 percent. Our addiction to oil, requiring new pipelines, will keep America from leading in the new energy world economy.
The Canadian oil industry's goal of producing 6 million barrels of destructive tar sands oil per day by 2030 could destroy chances of limiting the increase in global temperature to 2 degrees Celsius, the limit recommended by scientists to avoid dangerous climate disruptions.
Keystone will move tar sands through America, not to America. It's an export pipeline that will increase gas prices. The State Department admits this pipeline will create very few permanent jobs, while contributing to climate-related disasters.
Tell Obama, "No we can't."
Ellis Levinson
San Jose
