'Stand your ground': Return of the Wild West
The TrayvonMartin case shows the incredible folly of the stand-your-ground and right-to-carry laws in Florida and many other states, but thankfully not in California.
Because the Martin-Zimmerman confrontation took place without witnesses, only George Zimmerman's testimony survived, and he was within his legal rights to "stand his ground," according to Florida law. Thus, reasonable doubt about his guilt existed, so the jury had to acquit, and any other fair jury would have had to do the same.
This scenario may very well be repeated many times, in many states: All it takes is a physical confrontation without witnesses, at least one of whom is armed. We will never be able to eliminate physical confrontations, but we must try to minimize the possibility of deaths because of them.
The rioters protesting the Zimmerman verdict would have been much better served by demonstrating against these Wild West stand-your-ground and right-to-carry laws. 
Robert Zanker
Concord
Zimmerman acquittal was jury's only option
Neither facts in evidence nor applicable law supported a murder two or manslaughter indictment, let alone conviction, of George Zimmerman.
Zimmerman was properly acquitted, despite tax-funded Justice Department agitators who traveled to Florida to inflame local sentiment against him, and despite attempted withholding of evidence by Florida State Attorney Angela Corey (including TrayvonMartin's incriminating text messages -- e.g., his self-identification as a "gangsta").
Prosecutors and a Martin family attorney themselves said the case wasn't about race. But that didn't keep race-baiting opportunists, from President Barack Obama to Attorney General Holder to the Rev. Al Sharpton, from stirring racial tensions.
Remember the riots after O.J. Simpson's criminal trial acquittal? I don't either.
As Booker T. Washington, the famous black author/orator who was born a slave, wrote in 1911: "There is a certain class of race-problem solvers who don't want the patient to get well, because as long as the disease holds out they have not only an easy means of making a living, but also an easy medium through which to make themselves prominent before the public."
Sharon Arata
Danville
Florida's law is to blame for moral outrage
Initially, I thought the acquittal of George Zimmerman was a moral outrage and I viewed the verdict of the predominantly white jury as just another example of twisted "Southern justice."
However, as I listened to the discussion that followed, it became apparent to me that the judge's pre-deliberation instructions to the jury left them no other option. I still consider the verdict a moral outrage, but it's Florida's law that enabled the decision I condemn.
The state's stand-your-ground law wasn't used by the defense to justify the killing, but the implications of that law will certainly produce more TrayvonMartins in our country.
Zimmerman's rash conduct on that fateful night was unnecessary and irresponsible and should be condemned by every honest American. If he had heeded the reasoned advice of the 911 dispatcher, his unfounded concern would have been peacefully resolved by the police.
Ronald Entwistle
San Pablo
Jurors know facts, law, and protesters do not
It appears to me the jurors in the George Zimmerman/TrayvonMartin case were not biased and that the outcome was not racially motivated. I wish the same could be said about the protesters.
How interesting that they believe they have a better understanding of the facts and Florida law than the six jury members who decided the case.
While much of the nation's diverse population is working toward a colorblind society, those who disagree with the verdict seem to selectively pick and choose factors that support their biases and viewpoints. That's easy to do these days when the media do the same thing, and Internet chatter is based far more on emotion than on facts.
Justice based on equality and discrimination based on racial preferences are mutually exclusive. We can't have both.
We also can't have majority rule, which is the foundation of democracy, and federal investigations and rulings based on political pressure by special interests. Sadly, this nation is moving toward the latter.
Jeff Morris
Brentwood
Jury ignored evidence, focused on wrong thing
I don't think the jury understood the evidence that was presented to them. They were more focused on the stand-your-ground issue.
Against the advice of the 911 dispatcher, George Zimmerman left his vehicle and confronted TrayvonMartin.
Zimmerman testified that his weapon was in his waistband at his back. It is doubtful he could have reached the weapon with Martin straddling him. I believe Zimmerman had the gun in his hand and Martin tried to protect himself.
Some on the right are making Zimmerman out to be the victim -- that he should get a medal and Martin got what he deserved. What sad excuses for humans.
While peaceful demonstrations are useful, to assure we have justice for all Americans I urge all to register and vote.
J.W. Strawther
Antioch
Jury followed law in Zimmerman case
The jury reached the proper conclusion in acquitting George Zimmerman. The evidence in the case was clear and the jury had only one option: to follow the law.
It's clear Zimmerman failed to follow the advice of the police and followed TrayvonMartin into the apartment complex. However, being followed did not give Martin the right to assault Zimmerman.
The evidence was clear that Zimmerman suffered numerous injuries to his nose, lips and back of his head. These injuries were corroborated by witnesses, and forensic evidence showed Zimmerman was on his back, with Martin on top of him slamming his head into the sidewalk.
The stand-your-ground law in Florida requires that the evidence prove it wasn't self-defense. The jury did its job.
Jim Gray
Rodeo
What about Martin's right to stand ground?
It is outrageous George Zimmerman was acquitted for killing TrayvonMartin.
Everyone keeps talking about the stand-your-ground law as one reason Zimmerman is free today. What I fail to hear is that Martin also was standing his ground, which I guess doesn't matter, according to the jury.
Martin is not here to defend himself. I bet if he were, the verdict would have been very different. No justice whatsoever in this case.
I believe Zimmerman will definitely pay for his deeds by not being able to live a normal life. I hope it is miserable for him.
How very sad for Martin and his family. My heart and prayers go out to them.
Sheila Fisher
Brentwood
Entire matter was a political stunt
George Zimmerman was found not guilty of second-degree murder and manslaughter by a jury of six women (four of them mothers).
This verdict was reached because the prosecution could not present any evidence that proved guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
However, based on the nonexistent evidence, the charges shouldn't have been brought. The entire matter was a political stunt by the Florida State Attorney Angela Corey in her attempt to enhance her ambition to run for higher office.
Nevertheless, the liberal media sees this as an opportunity to stir up racism and curry favor with minorities. They mask that Zimmerman is a minority by referring to him as a "white" Hispanic. Ridiculous? Of course. But since when has the liberal media been accused of fairness and accuracy when a crisis can be used to advance their cause of racial pandering?
The only thing more deplorable in this matter is that President Barack Obama is trying to use the Zimmerman affair as a distraction from all the scandals that plague him and his administration.
Ernest Hampson
Pittsburg
Justice certainly was not served
I am deeply disturbed by those who proclaim "justice was served" in the TrayvonMartin case.
It should be a crime, beyond any reasonable doubt, for a man to take a loaded gun, ignore instructions from an emergency dispatcher, stalk an innocent teenager and kill him after a confrontation that, regardless of who swung first or who swung at all, was the result of the killer's aggressive behavior.
But under Florida's stand-your-ground law, "justice was served." While Florida may be the worst state, it's not alone. Some 20 states have passed similar laws after lobbying by the NRA and ALEC, and passed by tea party Republican legislatures. It is they who are guilty of murdering Martin.
How many more will die before these awful laws are taken off the books? In the meantime, the lessons are clear: If you are black and living in a stand-your-ground state, arm yourself, and when you feel threatened, shoot to kill. If you don't carry a gun, stay out of Florida.
John Bursch
Martinez
