It's dark. His heart is racing, and with each beat the fluid of life spurts out his heart and lungs like a squirt gun. His breathing draws heavy. He's scared. No one really knows what the final moments of TrayvonMartin's life were like, but according to most medical experts, Trayvon survived for a couple of minutes and probably was semiconscious. Even after his heart finally gave out, his brain retained roughly 16 seconds of oxygen, enough to keep it functional, enough for a moment of contemplation.
What we do know is Trayvon was unarmed, had committed no crime, and his race initiated the chain of events that led to his loss of life. The same was true for 13-year-old Darius Simmons of Milwaukee, an African-American youth. He was simply moving a garbage can in front of his home when his 75-year-old white neighbor confronted him with a shotgun and accused him of stealing from his home. The neighbor shot Darius in his chest while he had his hands raised; his mom was watching in horror. It was later determined that Darius was in school at the time of the theft. Darius Simmons was unarmed and had committed no crime. 
The same was also true for 13-year-old Jarrell Tucker of Indianapolis. This African-American youth was walking down the street, confronted by a 56-year-old white man, punched and shot two times, once in the head and once in the leg. Detectives talked to the shooter but did not detain him. After talking to witnesses, police subsequently issued a warrant for the arrest of the shooter. Jarrell Tucker was unarmed and had committed no crime.
And let's not forget 17-year-old Jordan Davis, an African-American youth of Jacksonville, Fla. A 45-year-old white man claimed he felt threatened by teenagers playing loud music. He fired eight or nine times into an SUV, killing the teen. Like the others, Jordan Davis was unarmed and had committed no crime.
We cannot ignore that the significant increase in drug-related violence and homicides in the urban communities has imbedded in the minds of both blacks and whites that young black men are criminal predators. This profile was the predominate factor in all these cases, including TrayvonMartin. Take into consideration that African-Americans are significantly more likely to be profiled, arrested and incarcerated than white suspects who commit similar offenses and have equal to longer criminal records. Include that African-Americans are approximately six times more likely to spend time in prison or jail than whites. Add in that African-Americans receive up to 60 percent longer federal prison sentences than whites who commit similar offenses, and 20 percent longer prison sentences than whites who commit the same offenses. And overlay those facts with a justice system in which African-American defendants are consistently overcharged by prosecutors in contrast to white defendants.
Thus it is reasonable to understand the anger and mistrust African-Americans have for the justice system. The stereotyping of young black men as criminal predators is not new. During reconstruction in 1915, "Birth of a Nation" led the way in the stereotyping of young black men as savages. In this film, the terrifying, savage African-American was tamed through lynching; today it's with a gun. This criminal predator stereotyping continues and is commonly used as a backdrop to justify concealed weapons and "Stand Your Ground" laws.
As far back as the emancipation, and over the years, the image of the savage from the "Dark Continent" periodically is revitalized stealthily within social policy agendas. And racial violence against African-Americans throughout U.S. history was justified and encouraged. The message of the day to whites was, in order to protect our way of life we must put blacks in their place; and that is exactly what George Zimmerman insisted on doing to TrayvonMartin, who was unarmed and had committed no crime.
---
Adolphus M. Pruitt II is president of the St. Louis City NAACP.
