Is new health commissioner qualified?
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
The news about the landlord of Virginia's new health commissioner was very informative.
But as a public health educator/researcher for some 30 years at VCU's School of Medicine, I was curious about Dr. Cynthia Romero's preparation for being Virginia's health commissioner, a job usually calling for specialty training and credentials in public health.
While I have been retired for some years now and am no longer up-to-date on what Virginia law says about this, the past assumption in the commonwealth and other states was that a physician trained only in a clinical field (such as Romero's board certification in family practice) was not equipped or allowed to be the chief medical officer of a state health department. The past practice of appointing only well-trained and experienced public health physicians as our health commissioner was strictly observed. This made public health policy decisions comply with medical and scientific standards, not political or ideological ones. 
Perhaps more ought to be known about how and why Romero was appointed and why she would accept this war-torn position. Health commissioner is ordinarily awarded to public health physicians who know firsthand details about the complex services in a state health department, which protects the public from preventable disease, disability, accidents, death and mass catastrophes.
Edward H. Peeples.
Richmond.
Store toxic waste in Detroit
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
It is time for Detroit to start a new industry. Make the empty acres a nuclear and/or a hazardous-waste disposal site. Federal funds could be used. A training facility could be built. Sunflowers could be planted to absorb soil surface radiation. A laboratory could be built to research ways to neutralize hazardous chemicals. This idea would be a whole lot better than bankruptcy. And no, I don't think Detroit is a wasteland.
Sally Oxyer.
Richmond.
No, believers can't do that
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
You headlined a letter "Believers can also support choice." The only response is, "No Way!" Believers cannot support the killing of an unborn human being.
Believers know that embryologists state as fact that life begins at conception. Believers know that obstetricians treat the fetus as an independent life. Believers know that the fetus is treated in law as an independent human being, that the killing of a fetus in a criminal act is considered by law as murder.
Both sides in this discussion, pro-choice and pro-life, are not on an equal footing. A mother has no moral right to allow her unborn child to be destroyed. This is what believers believe.
Frank Solari.
Richmond.
Pitts' column deepens division
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
It is a tragedy when someone as young as Trayvon Martin loses his life in such a senseless way. The story saddens anyone who has children or knows what it is to lose a child. My grandson is only two years younger than Martin was at the time of his death. I can only imagine how I would feel.
The Op/Ed piece by Leonard Pitts "Wake . . . up" has saddened me even more. I find his column incendiary. It can only serve to deepen the void between races. His bitter words help infuse a global perception that there is no solution to our social dilemma.
This type of journalism has no place in a country struggling to eradicate racism and prejudice. The more the media focus on our differences and espouse anger and hatred at every turn or event, the longer it will take for us to understand and accept one another as the brothers we are. No law can ever accomplish this. This is learned and earned through mutual trust and respect over time.
Perhaps, the day will come when racism and prejudice no longer exist in the United States, but words like those expressed by Pitts fuel more distrust and misunderstanding. It is a pity he does not use his words for inspiration and healing, because those are something that America desperately needs.
Brenda Feria.
Richmond.
Supplements are safer than drugs
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
Regarding the article "Regulations differ for supplements": The reason dietary supplements aren't regulated like drugs is because they're much safer than drugs. It's the same reason the Department of Energy regulates nuclear reactors differently than fireplaces.
Is the FDA drug-approval system the best model for safety? Properly prescribed FDA-approved drugs kill an estimated 100,000 people and receive approximately 550,000 adverse event reports a year. FDA-approved opioid painkillers now kill more Americans each year than automobile accidents.
Dietary supplements can't go through the FDA drug-approval process, which requires expensive double-blind studies that can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. Because natural products (such as dietary supplements) can't be patented, supplement companies can never recoup the astronomical costs of these trials. As a direct consequence, natural (and oftentimes exponentially safer and cheaper) remedies are dismissed as ineffective and subjected to legal threats by hostile regulatory agencies and organizations like Public Citizen.
Darrell Rogers,
Alliance for Natural Health USA.
Bethesda, Md.
Don't balance budget on backs of the ill
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
On July 1, under the cover of a popular vacation week, Medicare proposed a devastating surprise for my dialysis patients -- a 12 percent Medicare budget cut. This disappointing plan was triggered by congressionally mandated fiscal cliff cuts. The cuts are so deep they could restrict dialysis services and force clinic closures just as kidney disease is growing. It's cruel, unusual and unjust to have critically ill people accept reduced care or travel longer distances for dialysis. My patients could die within two weeks without their three weekly dialysis treatments. The life-sustaining nature makes this budget issue unique, especially in Virginia where more than 15,442 residents have kidney failure.
If you don't think kidney disease impacts you -- think again. The silent killer is caused by high blood pressure and diabetes and affects one in seven Americans, making it the eighth-leading cause of death. When the disease progresses to kidney failure, my patients must seek transplantation (which is rare) or get dialysis four hours, three times a week to stay alive. In Virginia, kidney failure has increased 15.8 percent increase since 2005.
Dialysis professionals like me have worked hard to improve health outcomes. In 2011 we adopted a cost-effective payment system which became a Medicare model. Yet our progress is being rewarded with Medicare cuts. Why?
Medicare covers the cost of dialysis, regardless of age. But it barely covers the cost of complex dialysis care now, and new cuts would be disastrous. Congress must not balance budgets on the backs of kidney failure patients. The sick and vulnerable deserve better.
Richard Clark.
Richmond.
Local musicians need to eat, too
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
A recent article noted that the State Fair of Virginia is putting out the call for free musicians. As a professional musician, I am very dismayed that the State Fair and the Virginia Farm Bureau look at the local arts as an entitled commodity with no real monetary value. Furthermore, the Virginia Farm Bureau's comment of loving to work with musicians who play in garages, parking lots et cetera, will only yield amateur, non-professional musicians or hobbyists, which will just downgrade the overall quality of entertainment at the fair -- which claims on its website that it offers "the best of Virginia."
I have no problem with periodically playing a charitable benefit for a worthy nonprofit organization, but the State Fair is for-profit. The fair is paying the "national" acts performing there and the array of electricians, plumbers, groundskeepers, even parking attendants -- why not local musicians?
I'm sure the fair will find bands willing to play for free, undermining the value of working musicians. And that's the problem -- once you devalue a service, it will be seen as having no intrinsic value to anyone.
Shame on the State Fair of Virginia for trying to take advantage of local musicians. I will be boycotting the State Fair this year and asking other musicians, entertainers and supporters of the arts to join me.
Robert Saydlowski.
Henrico.
Virginia could stand outfrom the rest
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
Having spent time in China with Charles McPhillips and Brad Haneberg marketing the many business advantages of the Commonwealth of Virginia, I concur with the recommendations made in their Commentary column, "Virginia needs investment from overseas."
Chinese business has a very real desire to invest offshore due to its government's inconsistent monetary policy. The U.S., with its stable business climate, large consumer base and strong entrepreneur activity, is a logical Chinese target for investment.
Virginia can stand out from the other 49 states by encouraging new foreign capital to invest in the commonwealth through a mechanism like the Virginia In-Bound Growth Funds option. As suggested, we have an incentive tool, the Governor's Opportunity Fund , to help leverage this foreign capital and keep the investment tied to Virginia based on job creation.
As an economic developer who has worked exclusively in the commonwealth since 1976, I believe we need to explore new ways of bringing jobs and capital investment to the state. Why not explore the Virginia In-Bound Growth Funds concept?It could provide a whole new stream of business opportunities that are not currently being explored.
Greg Wingfield,
President and CEO,
Greater Richmond Partnership Inc.
Richmond.
