Protect Volusia's wetlands
I'm writing about the story, "Proposed wetlands-rule changes stir flak."
In 1992, my husband and I moved from "up north" to Port Orange. The word "paradise" kept coming to mind because of the surrounding beauty. Unfortunately, now the lines from "Big Yellow Taxi" -- "They paved paradise and put up a parkin' lot" -- come more to mind.
The "Florida State of the Environment -- Wetlands: A Guide to Living with Florida's Wetlands" is an excellent documentation of the enormous value of wetlands. Volusia County Councilman Doug Daniels believes existing rules are "overprotective" of unproductive low- quality wetlands. When I studied Environmental Policy at Tufts University, every wetland was productive and necessary. As Councilwoman Pat Northey believes, changing current wetland protection is "an assault on our 30-year legacy of good environmental stewardship." 
SHARON L. BECKER
Port Orange
Daniels and partisanship
We all should be pleased with the appointment of Doug Daniels as an e-zone consultant to the city of Daytona Beach.
Being a Democrat, it was clear that the Republicans were only interested in attacking the appointment because of his party affiliation. I'm certainly on board with that thinking.
Democrat Daniels' selection by the Democrat-controlled Daytona Beach city government was clearly the only option available, and the no-bid appointment was totally justified. This surely is a brilliant decision that all Democrats applaud.
Why should the Republicans be concerned about the ethics of another no-bid deal? It only pays "$125 per hour, up to $125,000," and I'm confident that Daniels will be sure to spend every hour working hard and won't work even one hour beyond that $125,000 limit.
Oh my, I hope the other work of his law firm won't be disrupted and that other work representing his district on the Volusia County Council can be worked in. Maybe those other jobs can be worked on weekends or after the $125,000 limit is reached. Of course, it will be best for all of us to have Daniels working as an insider on the County Council for all those development interests that he'll be focusing on now.
It's just too bad that those darn Republicans will ask him to not vote on any of those development concerns requiring council involvement. I suspect, though, that Daniels will usually get his way on those votes. Daniels knows a few Democrats on the County Council too, and that certainly will be a help.
Congratulations to Daniels and our Democrat leaders. What a great system we have here, and those darn Republicans just ought to quit trying to interfere.
THOMAS CORIALE
Daytona Beach Shores
Conflict almost inevitable
Because conflicts of interests are unavoidable, I believe County Councilman Doug Daniels should resign from his position as a paid (up to $125,000) e-zone consultant to the Daytona Beach City Commission. You can not serve two masters (or three).
I believe that Daniels should decide whether to serve as the elected Volusia County Council representative, or serve the Daytona Beach City Commission. This situation should have been averted. Keep it simple, nonpolitical and transparent.
TOM RAMSEY
Daytona Beach Shores
'Right to life' irony
The "personhood at fertilization" advocates and the movement to control women's reproduction -- contraception and abortion -- avow "sanctity of human life." But they discriminate.
Advocates seem unmindful of, or ignore, former fetuses born and bounded by poverty, including women, i.e., persons, inhibited from preventing or terminating pregnancy.
Forty percent of babies are born outside marriage, 73 percent for African-Americans.
Unwanted and out-of-marriage children become significant in poverty, unemployment and crime. All of us are affected, directly or indirectly.
Non-ideological, no-exception sanctity, providing ethical-legal grounds for a woman to control her body, would benefit society.
"There are none so blind as those who will not see." Ironically, this has biblical roots.
JACK REEVES
New Smyrna Beach
Watch shouldn't be armed
Once again, our media has done a masterful job of creating an issue that directs our attention and needed concern away from a very real problem.
The latest example of what I'm talking about is, of course, the Martin/Zimmerman tragedy. Not one person involved with the legalities of this case, to include the jury, has ever perceived this as a racial issue. More importantly, not one person who actually knows George Zimmerman has even hinted that he might be a racist. Since these facts do not support the media's agenda, which is to sell papers and gain viewers, they have gotten very little exposure. I'm actually surprised that the media has not found a way to somehow link Paula Deen to TrayvonMartin's death.
If people are sincerely sickened by what took place in Sanford and want to do something meaningful that might actually help prevent future such tragedies, I suggest we direct our energies to marching in protest against the ridiculous law that allows "community watch/ citizens patrol" types to carry loaded weapons.
I honestly believe that if George Zimmerman was not armed with a loaded gun, he would never have gotten close enough to Trayvon to be involved in any type of altercation.
CHARLES RIZZO
Daytona Beach Shores
