Since Friday, social-media sites have moderated - in every sense of the word - public reaction to President Obama's semi-off-the-cuff remarks on the George Zimmerman/TrayvonMartin verdict.
 These tributary media - Facebook, Twitter, and their sibs; the blog world; cable TV - allowed many voices to vent, the measured and the extreme alike. But then the heat diffused - something social media also can do - and by Monday a different tone had emerged, less like war, more like the discussion about race so many say they want.
 James Peterson, director of Africana studies and associate professor of English at Lehigh University, says: "I think it was just great, both the initial outbursts, and what happened as the days went on. I do think social media played a role." 
 Twitter and Facebook flared with both praise for the president's forthrightness and accusations of divisiveness and racism.
 Conservative tweets went out even before Obama's talk was over. Todd Starnes of Fox News tweeted that Obama "truly is trying to tear our country apart." Ben Shapiro of Breitbart.com tweeted that "Obama helped ignite this ginned up racial melee." And blogger Dan Riehl tweeted, "If you ever had any doubts, Obama is the first Racist in Chief."
 Later, some sought more level ground. Contacted in Virginia, where he is preparing to move back up to Lewistown, Pa., blogger Riehl said that while perhaps 
 was not the best-chosen word, he felt Obama insisted on obsolete race rhetoric that actually endangers the welfare of young black men by not focusing on their upbringing and behavior.
 "Instead of looking forward, this is our first black president and he is intent on looking backward," Riehl said. ". . . Instead of this man of achievement saying, 'I went to Harvard, I got elected, and I'm sorry, Trayvon should not have been doing what he was doing. This is about decisions, about parenting, about responsibility,' he all but abdicated his leadership on race."
 Much the same charge came from the center-left. The day of Obama's address, TV host Tavis Smiley tweeted that it had been "weak as pre-sweetened Kool-Aid." Sunday on NBC, he said that "on this issue, you cannot lead from behind. What's lacking in this moment is moral leadership." 
 "Some on the left definitely feel it was too little, too late," Peterson says. "In being a man of different races and parts of the country, Obama gets it from both sides. He's damned if he does and damned if he doesn't."
 On Saturday, CNN host Don Lemon (once an anchor for NBC10 in Philadelphia) and conservative commentator Ben Ferguson got into it. Ferguson dismissed Obama's notion of social prejudice, calling it "an incredibly broad brush." Lemon replied: "Who are you to tell us we're not having that experience, when you're not living it? . . . It's insulting for you to say, 'No that's not happening.' You don't live as a black man, you don't know that."
 Contacted by e-mail, Lemon said: "I am a journalist. But I'm a human being first. And as a human being who just happens to be black, who just happens to have been profiled (some of it public record), I felt in that moment it was important to draw upon those experiences to tell the whole story. . . . If you have a special insight into something in the news, it's incumbent upon me or any other journalist to inform the viewers and the person being interviewed that his or her info is incorrect." 
 A single Facebook post Friday drew vigorous response, following the national arc, from emotion to tempered discussion. Patrick Schuster of Garden Grove, Calif., criticized those for whom "only 'whites' are capable of racism . . . 'non-whites,' by the very nature of skin tone, are incapable of hate crimes.. . . This is a base lie."
 Ted Klett of Hopewell felt "the president took us to school cause we needed it." Klett wrote later that "if we want less people to go to jail and not be hurt worse by retaliation, we should teach them to know the true difference between violence, force and self defense." 
 Obama's remarks, and the media debate, sparked discussion in many households. Ellen Foos of Princeton said she used TrayvonMartin's fate as an example for her adopted son, Kayjuan, 13, who is African American and favors hoodies, "of how he should be a bit more aware of his actions and behavior."
 She saw the Lemon/Ferguson encounter, and read a widely viralized Facebook post on the Zimmerman verdict by Ahmir "Questlove" Thompson, drummer for the Philadelphia band the Roots. Kayjuan is not political, but he does think Obama "is trying to improve race relations."
 Not everyone is content with the media coverage. Chris Harper, professor of journalism at Temple University, says writers such as Charles Blow of the New York Times have sought a moderate tone. But coverage is still skewed, he says. The Rev. Al Sharpton's moderately attended rallies are covered as if "the moratorium marches in Vietnam or the march on Washington with [the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.] had happened again." 
 For his part, Lemon calls the media debate "a good thing on the whole." Both he and Peterson see it, however, as unfinished business. (Peterson: "We have 
 much work to do yet in this nation.")
 In Lemon's words: "White people need to listen to black people when they share their truths, and not deny that it exists. It's insulting. And black people need to listen to white people about their fears and concerns without castigating them. In order to have a conversation both sides have to listen and not just talk."
 Contact John Timpane at 215-854-4406 or jt@phillynews.com, or follow on Twitter @jtimpane.    
