Defense attorney calls Manning whistleblower
FORT MEADE, Md. - A defense attorney for Pfc. Bradley Manning says the soldier is a whistleblower who wanted the American public to know about the awful things he saw as an intelligence analyst in Iraq. 
Attorney David Coombs delivered his closing arguments today in Pvt. Manning's court-martial. Pvt. Manning is charged with 21 offenses, but the most serious is aiding the enemy. That charge carries a possible sentence of up to life in prison.
Prosecutors gave their closing arguments Thursday. They said Pvt. Manning was a traitor whose only mission was to find and reveal government secrets to WikiLeaks, then bask in the attention as a whistleblower.
A judge, not a jury is hearing the case at Pvt. Manning's request. It's not clear when she will rule.
Hedge fund pleads not guilty
NEW YORK- A not guilty plea was entered today on behalf of a Connecticut-based hedge fund charged in a criminal indictment with letting insider trading flourish over a 10-year period as it grew into an investing giant and made hundreds of millions of dollars illegally.
The plea in Manhattan federal court was made by Peter Nussbaum, longtime general counsel for SAC Capital Advisors, a day after the company was charged with wire and securities fraud. Federal prosecutors described a culture at SAC that permitted, if not encouraged, insider trading.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps told U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain that the evidence was "voluminous" and included emails and the results of wiretaps.
Stamford, Conn.-based SAC said in a statement after the charges were announced Thursday that it will continue normal operations. It said it "has never encouraged, promoted or tolerated insider trading and takes its compliance and management obligations seriously."
Zimmerman juror speaks out
ORLANDO, Fla. - The second juror to speak publicly told ABC News in an interview that she feels George Zimmerman got away with murder for fatally shooting Trayvon Martin, but that there wasn't enough evidence at trial to convict him under Florida law.
Juror B29 told Robin Roberts that she favored convicting Mr. Zimmerman of second-degree murder when deliberations began by the six-member, all-women jury.
"I was the juror that was going to give them a hung jury," she said. "I fought to the end."
But by the second day of deliberating, she realized there wasn't enough proof to convict the 29-year-old neighborhood watch volunteer of a crime.
"George Zimmerman got away with murder, but you can't get away from God," she said. "And at the end of the day, he's going to have a lot of questions and answers he has to deal with."
