I'm so sorry I coughed
To the lady, woman or whomever imitated me when I coughed at the Bassett Place Target on July 15, don't quit your day job. Oh, excuse me. That's if you have one.
Martina M. Nieto 
Central El Paso
Collateral victims of baby debate
It only takes a moment to become pregnant so 20 weeks to terminate a life seems random. While both sides of the debate are emotionally charged, the right to life seems to be taking a back seat.
One group's argument rests on the idea that the price of this measure would cost $36 million to keep our licensed clinics open. If that group were to pass the hat among its members or refocus its efforts to have the state absorb the cost of clinics needing upgrades, the supposed objective of "protecting women" would be less of a ruse.
Unborn children and women's rights are the collateral victims of our debate on the Texas Abortion Bill, but funding is once again the silver bullet. We've got politicians going on bus tours and building their cases and careers on our problems when they should be addressing them.
Only five of the 47 abortion clinics in Texas meets the qualifications and are acceptable under the law.
El Paso's only clinics not meeting the standards is worth addressing, and something we should be concerned about. The focus needs to be funding upgrades to clinics deemed unacceptable.
A problem has been brought to light, but what's on the next slide? Random rants from long-winded politicians and boisterous women toting symbolic wire hangers are irrelevant to a woman's response to an unplanned pregnancy. That life-altering response should not be aggravated by unsafe medical options.
Eric Van Singleton
far East El Paso
Ex-mayor's demand too far overboard
He's back, like a bad dream you just can't shake! Now John Cook wants the citizens of El Paso to pay his $700,000 legal bill. For what? For stealing the very same citizenry of their right to vote for whomever or whatever and whichever way they choose, not what Cook and his cronies wanted, because and they, including "JW" herself, thought they were crazies and too stupid to understand what they were voting for.
He blames the city attorney's office for providing bad advice. If they believed that Cook, et al., were right, they should've provided his legal service, since they represent the City of El Paso in the legal arena and since he was an elected official of the City of El Paso, thinking he was representing the City of El Paso, perhaps correcting their "unclear text or grammar."
I believe they could see the writing on the wall and could tell right from wrong, even though the judiciary couldn't.
Maybe "our former troubadour" should contact WWE's Vince McMahon, sing him his tale of woe and get a "Village-Idiot" match set up between him and Joe Biden. People might even pay to see that!
Mickey R. Wilhite
West El Paso
Support sheriff's radio request
The citizens of El Paso County should support Sheriff Wiles and his staff in their request for adequate communications equipment. Command and control requires communication, while a lone deputy deserves the ability to call for back-up.
Since 9/11, federal funding has delivered millions, if not billions, of dollars to this community. I feel ashamed that our elected leaders have neglected to anticipate the obvious needs of EMS, fire, and police agencies by a lack of a technical management for the county and city.
We enjoy the safest big-city designation due to the tremendous number of federal, state, county and city agencies in place at taxpayer expense. Coordination and sharing of these assets by all entities would be beneficial to taxpayers, allow for programmed management of electronic resources, and save money by eliminating duplication.
Now is the time for elected officials to concentrate on management, not crisis management. We have elected, through representation, to make our community look and feel good with inadequate focus on the operations and maintenance funding to sustain requirements today and in the future.
Harold K Beemer
Northeast El Paso
Florida needs protection law
The state of Florida should issue every 17-year-old black child living in the state a Kel-Tec PF-9 9mm pistol so they can protect themselves from people like George Zimmerman. How about it, NRA, can you get with the program? It is all about personal protection.
Mike Donowho
West El Paso
Obama represents all U.S. people
President Obama's mistake in coming out and talking about Trayvon Martin, and his personal view on racial issues, is that as president he forgets he represents all Americans. In his comments, he represented black people. If he wants to go back to community organizing and advocating, he needs to step down as president. If he wants to be president, he needs to put his personal views aside, and represent all people.
Lori Godines
Far East El Paso
