Racial issues vary with time and place
President Barack Obama spoke eloquently and extemporaneously about race from the White House press room on Friday afternoon.
I was reminded of a debate during the presidential primary in 2000 between Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., and Vice President Al Gore from the Apollo Theatre in Harlem.
Bradley, a Rhodes scholar and former professional basketball player for the New York Knicks, challenged the audience in the theater and watching on TV to talk about race to people of another race. 
I was living in Washington, D.C., at that time, working as a registered nurse with coworkers and patients of many varied ethnicities.
One conversation I have never forgotten was with an African American man who grew up in the north but went to spend a summer with his grandparents in the south when he was a teen.
His father sat him down and told him the story of Emmett Till, who was killed for smiling at a white girl in the 1950s.
His father told him how he had to be very careful of every move he might make during his stay.
We had an amazing and for me an enlightening conversation. I believe that Bradley was right.
- Susan Earley, Madison
Obama feeds media's take on black violence
Trayvon Martin was physically beating George Zimmerman, a factor justifying the response that caused Martin's death (with or without the stand-your-ground law).
On Friday President Barack Obama asked us to consider if stand-your-ground laws would have justified Martin killing Zimmerman because Martin was followed and felt threatened.
Such rhetorical accommodation of black violence justified by non-violent offenses perceived against black Americans is predominant in our media. Shame on Obama for honoring it.
- John D. Schaeffer, Madison
Clean Lakes Alliance, fireworks an odd match
I am disappointed by the plans to detonate fireworks from barges on Lake Monona in 2014.
Last Thursday's article indicated that the Clean Lakes Alliance will be a charitable beneficiary of the event.
Why would an organization promoting the health of the Madison lakes agree to profit from an event that will add toxic pollution and debris to Lake Monona?
This calls into question the priorities of the organization. Are they interested more in cleaning up the lakes or in raising funds?
I would like to see the CLA do more with the generous budget they have generated through corporate and private donations.
The State Journal has featured the upcoming Clean Lakes Festival, and surely the CLA has contributed to ongoing dialog about clean water, but our lakes deserve more than fireworks and festivals.
The CLA has done a good job of getting their name out there through fundraising initiatives, but perhaps they need to refocus their human and monetary resources on more beneficial and meaningful actions.
- Kate Ullman, Madison
Will zoo animals be disturbed by fireworks?
Let's ask the people who run the zoo how they feel about having the fireworks over Lake Monona. Will it disturb the animals?
Maybe it would be better to activate those fireworks from the Olbrich Park area of the lake rather than the middle of the lake.
- Susan Nelson, Fitchburg
Organizations help in dealing with dementia
I want to add a few points to your thoughtful Tuesday editorial "Dementia studies connect dots."
Dementia does not only affect the elderly. Younger onset dementia affects people in their prime.
My husband was diagnosed at 64. He had been determined to have adult attention deficit disorder at 58.
No doctor even considered administering cognitive tests then to determine whether he might have mild cognitive impairment, a precursor to dementia.
It never occurred to any of us because he was so young. So "when in doubt, check it out" is good advice for all ages.
We are fortunate to have the Alzheimer's and Dementia Alliance of Wisconsin. It offers an array of programs and services designed to help families throughout the dementia process, which our family calls "the journey."
My husband and I enrolled in the Crossing Bridges program soon after he was diagnosed in 2010. It was immensely helpful in understanding the variations and stages of dementia, and offered tools and techniques I used to become the best caregiver I could be.
The Younger Onset Caregiver Support group and Sons and Daughters of Memory Caf provide a base for younger folks who are coping with the disease. There is nothing like sharing time, experiences and ideas with people in similar situations.
You do not have to go it alone. The journey provides opportunities for personal growth and discovery, and the Alliance is an invaluable friend in time of need.
- Amy Kell, Madison
