July 28--Dinnertime in my friend's home 30 years ago featured lectures on table etiquette, manners and the facts of life.
He grew up in the mostly white suburban landscape of Morris County, N.J. His mother would tell him "OK, we are one of the only black families in a white neighborhood. You need to behave yourself." 
She would also tell him when he was out with his friends -- who were all white -- not to do anything foolish.
"'They may do it, but the first person the police will look at is you,'" she said.
He's a grown man now, but still carries the burden of self-consciousness.
Recent events, including the Trayvon Martin trial, have exposed a great divide in this country's race relations.
It's just as true here in the Poconos, I discovered based on your reactions to last week's column on the topic.
This community was transformed by migration from New York and other parts of Pennsylvania.
Monroe County's population changed dramatically over the past decade, and now has the third-highest percentage of minorities among all 67 counties in the state.
The black and Hispanic population more than doubled here while the overall population only grew by 22 percent.
That's a lot of assimilation in a small community, with the potential to create some rifts among different groups.
Bigotry comes in all shapes and sizes: racism, anti-Semitism, fascism, national, cultural and ethnic supremacy.
Some believe it's an uninformed viewpoint.
Others argue, sometimes convincingly, it's time to put political correctness aside and face reality.
What kinds of discrimination do you experience here? What's it like to live as a black person in the Poconos? Or as a Hispanic or white person?
We all see the world through the lenses of our upbringings and experiences. Those events can distort our vision.
The question is, do we try to correct that vision? Or do we continue to filter reality through our own tinted glasses?
That's not a rhetorical question. We really want to know what you think.
The Pocono Record will host a private roundtable conversation about the issue of race in the Poconos. For 90 minutes, we'll get together at our Stroudsburg office.
If you're interested in participating, please email hfrank@poconorecord.com with your name, telephone number and times you are generally available.
And tell me why you want to be a part of the discussion and what you can bring to the conversation. We'll select a handful of people from the responses we get.
We want all points of views represented.
What do you think?
___ (c)2013 the Pocono Record, Stroudsburg, Pa. Visit the Pocono Record, Stroudsburg, Pa. at http://www.poconorecord.com/ Distributed by MCT Information Services
