July 28--The rallies that rippled through the country last weekend spread to Reading on Saturday as people marched down Washington Street from City Park to celebrate TrayvonMartin's life and to draw attention to violence in the community. 
Diana Rivera O'Bryant of Reading organized the march because she knows the grief Martin's family is feeling. In 2005, her son Jamar O'Bryant, 26, was fatally shot in the back nine times by rival drug dealers.
"I am a mother who has suffered," Rivera O'Bryant said. "I can't even explain the pain a mother deals with when she loses a child. What quality of life can our children have if they are growing up in a violent environment?"
The rally focused on "stand your ground" laws debated following the February 2012 fatal shooting of 17-year-old Martin of Sanford, Fla., but also highlighted other civil rights issues, including racial profiling and the Supreme Court decision to strike down a key portion of the Voting Rights Act.
Two weeks after a jury acquitted George Zimmerman of second-degree murder in Martin's death, Devonne Lindsey, 41, of Reading was still infuriated. The customer service specialist marched in a black T-shirt that had a white silhouette of Martin's face peeking out of a hoodie.
"I am looking for justice, and justice was not served for TrayvonMartin," Lindsey said. "The stand your ground laws did not protect him at all."
She carried a sign with words President Obama offered after the not guilty verdict: "TrayvonMartin could have been me 35 years ago."
"It's true," she said. "A black man living in society today is judged by the color of his skin, not the contents of his character. I have a 23-year-old son and it could have been him, too."
The march concluded at the Penn Street Bridge, where people linked hands to form a human chain and chanted words from "We Shall Overcome." Then, 17 white balloons were launched into the sky, one for each year of Martin's life.
Despite the 80-degree heat, Victor Perez Jr., 49, of Reading wore a black hoodie and carried Arizona iced tea to resemble Martin the day he was killed.
Perez said injustice must also be fought locally. About seven years ago, he said, his daughter was caught in crossfire when leaving a nightclub. She was shot in the back and paralyzed from the waist down, he said.
"It is beautiful to see the youth here today," Perez said. "We all need to get along and work together."
Julia Zion, 33, of Kutztown, a transgender woman, marched because she sees herself in Martin, too. To protect all minorities, Zion said the stand your ground law must be repealed.
"As a trans-woman, I'm scared that someone can come up to me, shoot me, and also get away with it," she said.
Contact Elyssa Cherney: 610-371-5038 or echerney@readingeagle.com
___ (c)2013 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
