The father of slain teenager TrayvonMartin is slated to appear at a Sunday evening rally in Riviera Beach, one of a series of high-profile appearances by Tracy Martin since George Zimmerman was acquitted in the shooting death of his 17-year-old son. 
Riviera Beach Mayor Thomas Masters organized the 7:30 p.m. "Community Rally for Justice and Peace" at Hilltop Missionary Baptist Church on 30th Street.
Along with Masters, several local pastors are co-hosting the event.
It comes as Tracy Martin and Trayvon's mother, Sybrina Fulton, crisscross the country urging the rollback of so-called "stand your ground" laws.
On Friday, Fulton spoke before the National Urban League in Philadelphia, urging the gathering: "Please use my story, please use my tragedy, please use my broken heart to say to yourself, 'We cannot let this happen to anybody else's child.'~HOA~128~128~"
The Florida law, she said, "prevented the person who shot and killed my son to be held accountable and to pay for his awful crime."
Zimmerman's acquittal ignited debate over "stand your ground" laws, which in Florida says a person has no duty to retreat and can "meet force with force" -- including deadly force -- if the person believes he or she is facing the threat of death or serious injury.
Zimmerman did not use the law as part of his defense.
However, it was referenced in jury instructions, and one juror has since expressed regret that it helped pave the way for a verdict of not guilty.
In Tallahassee, where Gov. Rick Scott has said he will not budge from his support of the law, there is growing support for revisiting "stand your ground" -- most recently from one of Scott's challengers for the governorship next year.
Nan Rich, a Democratic state lawmaker who in 2005 joined a unanimous Florida Senate in passing the legislation, recently wrote in campaign literature that "stand your ground" is "broken."
Meanwhile, pressure for change continues to gather steam: Protesters who have set up camp outside Scott's office are entering their third week.
And on Monday morning, both Martin and Fulton will appear with lawyers, including family attorney Ben Crump, and civil rights leaders in Miami at a National Bar Association news conference.
The topic is inequalities in the justice system.
Post Staff Writer John Kennedy and The Associated Press contributed to this story. pbeall@pbpost.com
