ORLANDO, Fla. -- The second juror to speak publicly told ABC News in an interview made available Thursday that she feels George Zimmerman got away with murder for fatally shooting Trayvon Martin, but that there wasn't enough evidence at trial to convict him under Florida law. 
Juror B29 told Robin Roberts that she favored convicting Mr. Zimmerman of second-degree murder when deliberations began by the six-member, all-women jury.
But by the second day of deliberating, she realized there wasn't enough proof to convict the 29-year-old neighborhood watch volunteer of a crime.
Obama infrastructure push
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- President Barack Obama vowed on Thursday to use his executive powers to bypass bottlenecks in Congress and accelerate infrastructure projects to bolster growth and add jobs.
Speaking inside a cruise ship terminal at Jaxport, a major passenger and cargo port on the East Coast, Mr. Obama hailed two major projects that would accommodate increasing global trade and speed the delivery of goods that arrive at this port on huge ships and depart by train for destinations across the United States.
Dish TV ad skipper upheld
SAN FRANCISCO -- Efforts by television networks to stop the Dish Network from supplying its customers an automatic ad-skipping device were dealt another setback Wednesday when a federal appeals court declined to issue a preliminary injunction against Dish.
The ruling by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed a lower court's ruling last fall and lent further support to Dish as it markets the Hopper, a digital video recorder that comes with the ad-skipping feature, which has the potential to undermine the television advertising business. The Fox network, which sought the initial injunction and then appealed, said it was disappointed by the second loss in court and would "review all of our options."
Gulf oil spill case
WASHINGTON -- A Halliburton Co. unit will plead guilty to destroying tests on cement work done on a BP-owned oil well that exploded and caused the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, federal prosecutors said Thursday.
Officials of Halliburton Energy Services Inc., which worked on BP's Macondo well, will plead guilty on the unit's behalf to one count of destroying evidence for failing to preserve computer models examining the final cement job on the well after the April 2010 explosion that killed 11 workers and sent millions of barrels of oil pouring into the Gulf, the Justice Department said in a statement.
Also in the nation
The Federal Election Commission said Thursday that legally married same-sex couples must be treated in the same manner as opposite-sex couples under election law, reversing its position in response to the Supreme Court's ruling last month that struck down part of the Defense of Marriage Act. ... A drilling rig that caught fire after a natural gas blowout in the Gulf of Mexico appears stable now that the fire is out, and there was no sign of any oil sheen on a fly-over Thursday morning, said Jim Noe, a vice president with the rig owner Hercules Offshore Inc. ... Anthony Weiner, the embattled candidate for mayor of New York City, acknowledged Thursday that he had engaged in inappropriate online communications with up to three women since leaving Congress two years ago.
