Your overall health would gain from a good night's sleep
In the modern age of iPhones, iPads, iPods, Kindles, the Internet and countless movies and television channels, it is no wonder Americans have trouble sleeping. In fact, a study done in 2011 by the National Sleep Foundation reported about 63 percent of Americans stated that they do not sleep as well as they would like. So what can we do? Loyola University Health System in Chicago offers tips for a better night's rest, including starting to relax at least 60 minutes before bedtime, avoiding exercise or vigorous housework 60 minutes before bedtime and turning off all electronic devices (sleepfoundation.org). It also recommends darkening the room, not eating or drinking several hours before bedtime and making a next day to-do list to decrease anxiety.
 Consistently sleeping well has numerous health benefits, such as maintaining a healthy heart, has the potential to reduce the risk of cancer, reduces stress and inflammation, boosts memory and can aid in weight loss (www.longevity.about.com). So, America, go to sleep! 
 Amanda Lundberg
 South Bend
 City life
 The last couple of weeks the news on television and in the newspaper has been the planning of apartments/condos to be built in Mishawaka and South Bend. The developers have told us about all of the amenities and the view of the St. Joseph River from them. Prices range up to a half million dollars, but what they did not tell the future buyers is that every day and night at no extra cost to them, they will have to put up with the loud speakers from cars driving by their homes.
 If they're smart and wait awhile, I'm sure some developer will build these units in Elkhart where they do not tolerate that kind of noise pollution. There, the drivers pay the cost.
 Even better, Mishawaka/South Bend could get on the money wagon with Elkhart and start cracking down on these drivers and give us all back the peace and quiet we all deserve.
 Walt Barkas
 Mishawaka
 Christians
 India has a problem in the Orissa state as Hindus attack Christians and in recent years have caused many Christians to leave for fear of their lives. Just a short while ago, a nun was gang raped with little consequence for the attackers per the Catholic World News.
 Yet, I have seen no major news stories regarding the topic of Christians under attack; Coptic Christians are under attack in Egypt also, but there is no mention of that scandal.
 William Wallace
 Plymouth
 Town homes
 I was sorry to read that the Riverwalk town homes are now in control of a bank (Tribune, July 20). I don't want readers to be led to believe that there aren't exciting things happening in downtown Mishawaka.
 I work for Prime Development Realty, the developer of the "other" town homes, the Townes at Kamm Island. They are the colorful units on the south side of the river toward 100 Center and 13 of the 15 units have sold and they continue to sell if they come back on the market.
 The economy dealt us all a blow, but things are turning around. The three-story commercial building by Beutter Park now has the second and third floors occupied. The Center for Hospice is nearing completion, with the addition of 90 or so jobs.
 I've met families from Goshen, Plymouth and Granger who come down to use the 3.5 miles of river-walk and the parks on weekends. The downtown has seen new growth, too, with several new restaurants and shops.
 Visit downtown Mishawaka!
 Dale Nagel
 Mishawaka
 Media spin
 I am a mother of five children. They are all adults now, but I can't even imagine losing any one of them since birth until now by any means.
 I grieve for Trayvon Martin's family because they are living a nightmare.
 My problem with this tragedy is all of the biased media and hate mongers who either didn't pay attention to the facts and evidence in the trial or simply know nothing about it and are using it to stir up more unrest in this country. The political nuances are also disgusting.
 When infants in Chicago are shot and killed by random gang violence, we don't hear the outrage that we should because it is black on black. Zimmerman isn't even white; he's Hispanic.
 There was no evidence that Zimmerman had ill will or any feeling of animosity toward Martin. He was doing what a neighborhood watch person does. There had been several break-ins in the neighborhood. It was a dark, rainy night and he was concerned about someone that he didn't recognize.
 Martin could have run. He chose to stay and challenge Zimmerman. I sincerely believe that the shooting was an accident and Zimmerman panicked as he was getting his head pummeled.
 This country needs to heal racially. We should start now! 
Jan Gauger 
LaPorte
