ST. LOUIS o The choir of Centennial Christian Church sang under the tall arched rafters as the sun filtered in through stained glass windows. The Sudan Illustrators troupe joyfully danced the South African boot dance, with whoops and cheers. A poet paid tribute; many prayers and psalms were said; and speaker after speaker recalled the courage and recited the words of the great South African leader Madiba, Nelson Mandela.
About 300 people - blacks, whites, Christians, Muslims and Jews - filled the pews at the church on Fountain Avenue to celebrate the recent 95th birthday of the ailing former South African president and to honor his life, legacy and values. St. Louis was one of 13 cities hosting a Mandela celebration event. Each city was chosen for its region's activism during the Free South African movement before multiracial democratic elections in 1994 ended the apartheid era with Mandela's election. 
South African General Counsel Vuyiswua Tulelo , based in Chicago, traveled here for the event to represent the South African government.
Lew Moye, president of the St. Louis chapter of the Coalition of Black Trade Unionists, was the main organizer of the Mandela tribute here. He and black trade unionists had played a leadership role in fighting apartheid.
"We are here to celebrate a great servant for justice and freedom, the warrior who as a young man fought in the streets, in the courts, in the prisons and is fighting in the hospital," he said. "We must keep him in our prayers for continued recovery."
Moye and St. Louis Comptroller Darlene Green both recalled Mandela's views on racism.
"No one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin, or his background or his religion," Mandela had said. "People must learn to hate and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love."
Speakers included leaders of civil rights organizations such as the NAACP, and leaders of religious institutions. Some had personally rallied in anti-apartheid protests in St. Louis. Others merely loved what Mandela represents and his quiet, humble demeanor. Many were government officials and labor leaders who said they were inspired by him, and some had been active in the civil rights movement here.
Some who spoke, including former state legislator Betty Thompson, came dressed in colorful robes and dresses from Africa.
Interfaith Partnership also played a key role in the evening's celebration, with Imam Muhamed Hasic, partnership president, Rabbi Harold Kaplansky and the Rev. Art Cavitt delivering comments or prayers. Other speakers had been activists of the St. Louis Free South Africa movement, which had staged protests against apartheid, and organized boycotts of Shell Oil and entertainers tied to the apartheid regime.
The celebration included the singing of the South African National Anthem and the inspirational "Lift Every Voice and Sing."
Amid the recollections of Mandela's courage and contributions, several references were made to contemporary political issues, including the Trayvon Martin case in Sanford, Fla., in which neighborhood watch captain George Zimmerman was acquitted recently in the shooting death of the unarmed teen.
Khabib Waheed, who also had been part of the St. Louis Committee to Free South Africa, talked about Americans today needing " the courage to have difficult conversations" about race in the United States.
Bob Soutier, president of the St. Louis Labor Council, and Van Simpson, the first black president of the UAW Local 2250 in Wentzville, talked about Mandela and labor.
"Our struggles may not compare to Mandela's. but we still have to fight to have basic voting rights, to educate our children and to provide medical care for our young and elderly," Simpson said. "We struggle to stop the savage attacks on our poor and impoverished. As we join forces we hear "Yes We Can, Si'Se Pede."
Activist Zaki Baruti talked about God's goodness in taking Mandela "from jail cell to the presidency" in South Africa.
"I never thought I'd see a person of color the president of the United States," he added in reference to the 2008 election of Barack Obama.
Rev. Samuel Hylton, pastor emeritus of Centennial Christian Church, who had been active in protesting apartheid, said: "The struggle continues and will continue ... until all racism and hatred is wiped from this earth."
He recited the words of the Biblical prophet Amos, also famously quoted by the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. - "Justice shall roll down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream ..."
