Focus on reality, not ideology, on reproductive health care
Thank you for your honesty and bravery in publishing your editorial on empty pro-life rhetoric ("Culture of lies," July 17).
It is shameful that when the Missouri Legislature had the chance to pass Medicaid expansion (a policy that would actually save lives), they chose instead to endorse more needless restrictions on reproductive health care. Fortunately, community health care providers, such as Planned Parenthood, are continuing to make quality care affordable and accessible to those with few other options.
Instead of chasing ideological fantasies to score votes, our representatives should focus on implementing reality-based solutions to the problems facing our state. Passing the Comprehensive Sex Education Act and expanding access to contraception and prenatal care would be good starts to improving infant and maternal health outcomes, lowering the rate of unplanned pregnancies (and thus abortions), and ameliorating the quality of life and health of all Missourians.
Whatever you think about reproductive choice, I think we can all agree that is a positive goal to work toward. 
Quin Rich o Clayton
Editorial criticizing pro-life community can't be taken seriously
What a crock! The Post-Dispatch editorial "Culture of lies" (July 17) was so filled with liberal doublespeak that it was impossible to take seriously. To call people who are pro-life liars is beyond the pale.
We in the pro-life community believe in personal responsibility, morals and virtue. We believe that people should refrain from having sex outside of marriage knowing that the results will be devastating - sexually transmitted diseases, broken relationships, abortion and a culture in a downward spiral. The liberal mindset of the Post-Dispatch constantly promotes sex with no boundaries, paying only lip service to abstinence as evidenced by the editorial's horrendous lie that "birth control is the most effective way to reduce abortions." No, abstinence is the most effective way to reduce abortions. Period, end of discussion.
The editorial used Barney Frank as their resident moralist, citing his summation of pro-lifers saying, "(They) believe life begins at conception and ends at birth." That is an insult to people of faith in the pro-life community who operate more schools, hospitals, adoption agencies and charities catering to children and families than any other entity in America. What is Barney Frank doing to help children?
It has become vogue in the liberal press to mock people who believe in traditional values. Author and retired Air Force Col. Jeff O'Leary put it well, "Virtue angers and threatens those whose own lives have been lived under the shadows of expediency and vice."
Beth Henson o Festus
President fosters racial divide
It's unfortunate that the president used TrayvonMartin's death to express his pent-up racial hostility (""Martin 'could have been me,' " July 20). Similarly, Hillary Clinton and others used this matter to further their political agendas. There is no doubt that Trayvon's death was a preventable tragedy. Had George Zimmerman followed the police directive not to follow Martin, the incident would not have occurred. Many of us agree that Zimmerman should have suffered some consequences, though not necessarily a murder charge.
However, from the outset President Obama interjected himself into the matter by proclaiming that if he had a son, he would have looked like Trayvon. Now, in response to the jury's verdict, the president says that he could have been Trayvon. He went on to say that had Trayvon been white, he may still be alive.
Perhaps race was a factor in this one incident. But, that is no basis for berating the entire white community, many of whom were not at all pleased with the results of the trial. The fact is that the greatest danger to black kids is other black kids. Literally, hundreds are killed in their own communities. One must also ask how safe a white person would be walking through many predominantly black neighborhoods.
Turning the argument around, how many of the several victims of "knockout gangs," including the man who was killed while walking home with his wife from the grocery store, would not have been attacked if they were black? And, if one of these knockout victims had shot his attackers, would we then hear that deadly force was not justified to avoid being beaten up?
It is tragic enough that Trayvon needlessly lost his life; there is no need to add to the tragedy by fostering racial divide, especially by the president of the United States.
Jerry Powers o Webster Groves
Violent behavior, not race, is at the core of TrayvonMartin case
"TrayvonMartin could have been me," said the president. Can we pause and go beyond the heat in order to get to some light? Everything appears to be based on Trayvon's being black and George Zimmerman is not. Skin color takes precedence over behavior.
There is no contest to the fact that Trayvon was black and unarmed. There is no contest that Zimmerman was armed (weapon not drawn) and is not black. Zimmerman erred when he didn't stay put and await the police. What about Trayvon's actions? Suspicion arose because he was crossing the yards of neighbors - still, not really enough to merit being followed.
Zimmerman lost sight of Trayvon. Trayvon hid behind a bush, jumped out at Zimmerman, punched him in the nose, breaking it, and pushed him to the ground. He then banged his head against the concrete and, according to Zimmerman, allegedly threatened to kill him. The gun at this point was drawn and shot. An unarmed black teenager is dead.
The question to the president is this: If you were Trayvon, would you have resorted to physical violence against someone who hadn't touched you, would you have asked him why he was following you or, better yet, in your youthful energy, would you have run away and straight to your father's home?
Had someone else of another race acted as Trayvon did, isn't it possible he also would have been killed?
The focus has been mostly on race. Perhaps some focus should be directed to physical violence - behavior. Unwise decisions on both parts ended in tragedy.
Helen Louise Herndon o St. Peters
South County Connector is not worth it
Members of The American Institute of Architects St. Louis Chapter have reviewed the South County Connector Draft Environmental Impact Study, and we have concerns on many levels, including the estimated cost of spending $110 million for a roadway to run from Big Bend and Flora avenues in Maplewood to River Des Peres at Watson in Shrewsbury, approximating the route of Metrolink.
We share the concerns that have been expressed by Maplewood, Shrewsbury, Citizens for Modern Transit, Trailnet and the Board of Aldermen in St. Louis, where one-fourth of the roadway is to be located. We believe that the connector's impact on the newly redeveloped Deer Creek retail center, its impact on residential areas and its impact on recently developed trails places automotive transportation issues over economic development and quality of life issues.
One of our primary objections is perhaps more subtle. That is, we are concerned that the development of this limited access primary conduit may diminish the character of adjacent neighborhoods, reduce their walkability and even harm the small businesses located on the many secondary alternative routes that we all use when traversing the many options available to travel from Shrewsbury to Maplewood.
The board of directors of AIA St. Louis believes that the environmental impact of the current proposal for the connector is not worth the marginal benefit it might provide by reducing a short trip by minutes.
Michelle Swatek o St. Louis Executive director, The American Institute of Architects St. Louis Chapter
