PUBLIC EDUCATION
Response to "APS funds often don't reach the classroom," News, July 21
The public school system has an entitlement culture where ex-teachers are channeled into their district office as administrators --- irrespective of the district's need, or the individual's capability. Unfortunately, the APS administration's absorption of funds, although unacceptably high, is not unique in this country. The U.S. spends considerably more on education than any other developed country, but we are consistently behind in student performance. One of the primary reasons is the disproportionate amount spent on school district administration, to the detriment of class performance. We should continue to demand spending and staffing accountability from all school administrations. IAN SHAW, CUMMING
ZIMMERMAN TRIAL 
We're all due to have
real dialogue on race
Regarding "Toward a more perfect union" (Opinion, July 21), I agree this is a time for dialogue on race in our country. Those of us classified as white must admit that race still has tremendous power in this country. Unless we begin there, any dialogue that follows will be hollow and self-serving. I grew up in the segregated South of the 1950s. I understand that well-meaning white people can be captured by the power of race, and not recognize its deadly power.
Regarding "What did we learn from this tragedy?" (Opinion, July 21), the author is wrong to dismiss comparisons with the Emmett Till case. That case called to many of us to ask, "Is this our son?" While the jury said "no," public opinion began to change. The same question can be raised with Trayvon Martin. That verdict answered that he was not our son.
It is time for all of us --- especially those who are white --- to begin to say, "Yes, he is our son." If we can do that, we will have taken a giant step.
NIBS STROUPE, PASTOR, OAKHURST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
EMPLOYMENT
Obamacare may fuel
temp positions spike
"Use of temps surging" (Business, July 21) details the tremendous increase in temporary staffing over the past four years. The article says this may be due to the strengthening economy and the flexibility afforded to businesses and workers. While these may or may not be factors in the increase in the temp workforce, the article ignores the "elephant in the room": the effect of "Obamacare" on business. It is no coincidence that the 53-percent increase in temp staffing has occurred since the passage of the current administration's health care law.
With the real and expected increases in health insurance costs, and what are seen as onerous additional health insurance costs to employers, it was irresponsible of the writer to remain silent on the effect of Obamacare. Obamacare places many of its costly mandates on employers with 50 or more full-time employees. Many employers already have eliminated --- or have announced intentions to eliminate --- full-time jobs in favor of temporary workers to fall under the 50-employee rule.
DICK SAUNDERS, ROSWELL
SECOND AMENDMENT
There's a reason why
some carry concealed
A recent letter stated that concealed carry laws should be changed so that weapons would be carried openly, and everyone would know who was armed ("End concealed carry; display guns openly," Readers write, Opinion, July 23).
The whole point of concealed carry is to prevent someone from knowing who is armed. Criminals avoid some victims on the chance they are armed.
H. STAN BORING, SMYRNA
