Staff Writer
rmellon@lnpnews.com
The Lancaster branch of the NAACP on Monday evening urged members of the community to take action with their pens and write letters to local legislators as a step toward eliminating social injustices and evoking change. 
About 70 community members, including Lancaster Mayor Rick Gray and a panel of social justice leaders, religious leaders and attorneys, packed an all-purpose room at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Lancaster for a discussion about issues surrounding racial profiling, voter identification and stand-your-ground laws.
Dwayne Jackson, central sectional director of the Pennsylvania NAACP branches, thanked the crowd: "That lets me know there is hope," he said of those who attended.
The two-hour meeting was aimed at inspiring a community movement for change and largely dealt with topics surrounding the verdict in the Trayvon Martin case. George Zimmerman was found not guilty in the shooting death of the teen.
"Our biggest thing as we have these meetings - (is) to find out what we can actually do," said Rita Smith-Wade-El, Millersville University professor and director of African-American studies. "What can we do to make some changes in policy, in procedure, in laws?"
Nick Miron, racial and gender equality advocate for Lancaster YWCA, said an important step forward is understanding differences in race.
"What I think people need to start thinking about is not how we're different, but how we should come together," Miron said. "We've been separated by our differences for hundreds of years. We've been divided and separated. That's playing out today."
Smith-Wade-El said that, moving forward, Americans should base relationships with one another on those differences, not similarities.
"I would like celebrating difference because it means I don't have to be like you for you not to see an issue with me," Smith-Wade-El said. "The strength of our country is its diversity, and if we begin to minimize diversity, we will weaken our country."
Many community members shared personal experiences of racial profiling. Gray shared a conversation he once had with a judge regarding sentencing numbers of African Americans, Latinos and whites being within the sentencing guidelines.
"I said, Judge, you're starting in the wrong place," Gray said. "Start at the beginning. Who gets arrested for what? That's where you should start."
Miron urged attendees to "register to vote and call your representative," while community philanthropist Kimyatta Williams said change starts with love.
"When we love and teach our children love, it's then that we become a unity," Williams said. "Our children are our future. Start with loving them and investing in them, and then we have a chance."
Other suggestions for change included more education about race and activities for children.
According to the Lancaster chapter, the NAACP will be holding town hall meetings nationwide to address "the concerns of the community."
The local chapter said it hopes for continued participation at future gatherings here and throughout the country and offered a statement of thanks after the meeting on its Facebook page.
"We would like to thank our panelists, moderator and community members for supporting our town hall meeting. There were many ideas exchanged and together we can move forward as a united voice."
