In the aftermath of George Zimmerman's acquittal in the death of TrayvonMartin, I ask: What now?
I was shocked when my friend called and asked if I had heard the verdict announced. I said, "No." She said sadly, "George Zimmerman was found not guilty." 
I hurriedly told her to let me go to tune in to the news on television.
Once I heard the news and analyses of the verdict, I began to reflect back to the times I had served on juries and wanted to vote based on my emotions rather than the evidence and laws presented in court.
Since there weren't any witnesses to the fight, and Zimmerman wasn't compelled to testify, this may have cast doubt in the minds of the jurors. As I see it, Zimmerman was the judge, jury and executioner in this case.
With Trayvon's appearance, Zimmerman had determined that he was one of the "(expletives)" who always get away, as he related to the dispatcher, and he was going to make sure this one wouldn't get away.
One may ask why Zimmerman felt that way. What was going through his mind? Or had he had negative experiences with other "(expletives)?"
What now, after the marches and protests have faded away? What are going to do?
Yes, blacks kill each other at an alarming rate - in fact, in the past 20 years, 47 percent of all murders in our country have been committed by blacks, who only make up 13 percent of the population.
This isn't a just black problem. It is an American problem, too. What are we going to do to alleviate this problems and others?
Are we going to do something about gun control?
Are we going to mobilize to change the Stand Your Ground Law in Florida and any other state?
Are we going to improve the conditions of our underserved and isolated segments of our population?
Are we going to work to see that all citizens are treated equally in our legal system?
Are we going to continue to move away from troubled cities and create own little kingdoms?
Are we going to stop criticizing those who try to work or associate with other races?
Are we going to learn to respect people regardless of race or status in life?
Are we going to plan to improve our political divisions, both local and national?
Are we going to continue to assume that all persons of a race are lawless, just because a few are?
Are we going to continue to profile shoppers because of their race?
Are we going to continue to assume that some people are incompetent because of their race?
Are we going to promote and work to improve income and opportunity inequalities?
Are we going to encourage people of good character and integrity to become our political leaders?
If we don't work to solve some of our interracial and intraracial problems, we are going to leave our country in bad shape for future generations.
Tracy E. Williams Jr.
Augusta
