The Issue: President Obama's comments on Friday comparing himself years ago to TrayvonMartin.
  Rich Lowry's piece on the nation's current obsession with the result of George Zimmerman's trial is an oasis of common sense in an otherwise baseless debate ("The National Conversation on Race," PostOpinion, July 19).  
  Those who closely followed the trial were not surprised by its outcome. Nor were they eager to accept the misguided notion that it was all about race. It was about an extremely unfortunate sequence of events involving two minority individuals, which ended badly for both of them. One is dead, the other forever a marked man. 
  It was the presumption of guilt due to a media-inflamed racial narrative that got us where we are today. The jurors had every opportunity to accommodate the racial agenda, but decided not to do so. Good for them. 
   Marcio Moreira 
   Chatham, NJ 
  Lowry's column should be widely shared by every Post reader.  
  The only idiocy Lowry left out was the Rev. Jesse Jackson's suggestion of a UN investigation into the tragedy.  
   Henry LaRose 
   Latham 
  For President Obama to say that he could have been TrayvonMartin is an absolute disgrace (" 'Trayvon Could Have Been Me,' " July 20).  
  For the president to use politics in this sensitive case is nauseating. Obama will do whatever it takes to place himself in the spotlight.  
  On the day he leaves office, he will severely regret having ruined a chance to be a great leader.  Robert Henry 
   Palm City, Fla. 
  Our president does not have the right to exacerbate the unfortunately hostile climate surrounding the verdict.  
  The jury acted in good faith and deliberated for several hours to reach a fair and impartial decision. Obama was not in the courtroom, and his job does not include meddling in Florida's, or any other state's, judicial system.  Carl Rosenberg 
   Great Neck 
  Obama is using the presidency to divert attention away from the scandals that have dishonored his administration.  
  He wants our attention on this case, rather than on the IRS, NSA, "Fast and Furious" and Benghazi. He wants discontent among African Americans. He survives by the age-old strategy of divide and conquer.  
   Frank DeSanna 
   New Hyde Park 
  Obama was never Trayvon, as he tried to depict himself.  
  There are only two people who know the truth about what happened. Unfortunately, one of them is dead and the other will have to live with this tragedy for the rest of his life. 
  Where is the outcry about guns being used to settle stupid scores and grandmas sitting on a stoop or babies in carriages getting killed by gangbangers? S. Kane 
   Brooklyn 
