July 26--NEWMARKET -- A search warrant executed at a Durrell Drive residence Tuesday resulted in a local felon being charged with possessing 39 weapons.
Brian T. Croall, 44, of 20 Durrell Drive, is being held on $50,000 cash or surety bail for possession of firearms and drugs. 
He was previously arrested for vandalism July 17 for allegedly vandalizing 14 signs owned by either the town or state and is being held on $25,000 cash for vandalism and criminal threatening charges.
Croall remains incarcerated at Rockingham County Jail.
According to a clerk from Rockingham County Superior Court, Croall is charged with being a felon in possession of firearms, criminal mischief, possession of a narcotic drug, possession of a controlled drug, two counts of criminal threatening, and theft by unauthorized taking. Croall allegedly stole a solar light from one of his neighbors.
According to a report published Wednesday by the Union Leader, the damage to signs was estimated to be about $1,650 by Newmarket Public Works Director Richard Malasky.
The vandalism allegedly included offensive and racist messages, and threatening notes were found on telephone poles and trees in town and also on Croall's property, according to the Union Leader.
Newmarket police prosecutor Michael DiCroce told the Union Leader that some of those messages referenced George Zimmerman, the Florida man recently acquitted of killing teenager Trayvon Martin, as a hero.
DiCroce was not available for comment Thursday and a message to Newmarket Lt. Kyle True was not returned by deadline Thursday evening.
Along with the dozens of firearms, police also found 1,000 rounds of ammunition, according to the Union Leader.
In August 2012, Croall was convicted of felony level reckless conduct following an incident at the Chop Shop Pub in Seabrook where he discharged a firearm into the air. He had reportedly been complaining before firing the shot that his car radio had been stolen while his vehicle was parked in the Lafayette Road parking lot.
___ (c)2013 the Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, N.H.) Visit the Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, N.H.) at www.fosters.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
