WASHINGTON _ Tracy Martin, the father of TrayvonMartin, appeared on Capitol Hill Wednesday, saying he saw an opportunity for a positive outcome from his son's death.
"People tell you that no positive can come out of death, but I disagree wholeheartedly," Martin said. "Because it is what we can do tomorrow as a nation, as a people, to stop someone else's child from being killed. That's certainly a positive." 
Martin was speaking at the first hearing of the Congressional Caucus of Black Men and Boys, a group started to discuss how society can fix issues that disproportionately affect African-American males, such as racial profiling, employment opportunities and the quality of education.
TrayvonMartin, a 17-year-old unarmed black male, was killed in February 2012 in Sanford, Fla., while walking home from a store. The gunman, neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman, was acquitted this month.
Speakers repeatedly brought up amending or repealing "stand your ground" laws such as the one in Florida, which allows the use of deadly force if a person believes it is necessary to avoid death or serious injury.
"We believe there should be an amendment to the stand your ground law that simply says you cannot be the initial aggressor," said Benjamin Crump, the Martins' attorney. "You cannot start the confrontation. You cannot pick the fight, and then shoot the person, put your hands in the air and say, 'I was standing my ground.' "
Besides Martin and Crump, the discussion included Michael Eric Dyson, a sociology professor at Georgetown University, and Kweisi Mfume, a former president of the NAACP and former Maryland congressman.
David Johns, executive director of the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for African Americans, cited statistics on the importance of early education, including that children in third grade who are reading below their grade level are six times less likely to graduate high school. At age 5, Johns said, 56 percent of low-income black children are not prepared for kindergarten.
"Access to high-quality early education, for African-American boys especially, can be the difference between a pathway that leads to the White House and one that leads to the jailhouse," he said.
The committee room was packed with men in suits and others in jeans and baseball caps, part of a demographic the group was specifically trying to address. Though timely because the hearing was held less than two weeks after Zimmerman was found not guilty in TrayvonMartin's killing, the caucus was started back in March.
In a news conference last week to talk about the Zimmerman verdict, President Barack Obama called for the re-evaluation of laws on local levels to ensure they don't disadvantage African-Americans, as well as for conversations like the one Wednesday on Capitol Hill.
But Obama also expressed doubts that political conversations were the way to get results, saying they often ended up "stilted and politicized."
___
(c)2013 McClatchy Washington Bureau
Visit the McClatchy Washington Bureau at www.mcclatchydc.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services
_____
PHOTOS (from MCT Photo Service, 202-383-6099): CONGRESS-BLACKMALES
