It was ten days after 9-11 and the planes were beginning to fly across North America again even though the image of those hijacked jets crashing into the twin towers was still fresh in everyone's mind. 
I had to take a flight to Toronto for a meeting and there was a general feeling of apprehension in the cabin as we took off.
Then, as soon as the seat belt light went off, an Arabic-looking man got out of his seat, opened the over-head compartment, took a kit out of his duffel bag and began making his way down the aisle to the bathroom. Every eye in the plane was on him and I honestly wondered if someone was going to tackle him.
Suddenly, he too realized that everyone was watching him as he then walked a gauntlet of suspicion and fear to the back of the plane. Apparently he just needed a shave.
I remembered that incident as I watched the trial of George Zimmerman last week.
During that trial there was a lot of soul-searching about the issue of profiling people. Zimmerman saw TrayvonMartin as a young black man in a hoodie sauntering through his gated neighbourhood and immediately profiled him with suspicion as a thief.
Trayvon on his side described Zimmerman on his cell phone as a creepy-ass cracker who was following him (cracker is a derogatory term for white people).
When they eventually had a confrontation, Zimmerman ended up with a broken nose and Trayvon ended up dead with a bullet in his chest. As it turns out Trayvon was visiting a family member in the neighbourhood and was on his way back from the store where he bought Skittles and a bottle of iced tea.
Jesus told a famous parable about profiling. In his story, some thugs mugged a Jewish guy on a deserted road, stole his money, beat him up and left him for dead.
A couple of clergy-types walked by and left him there, not wanting to get involved. But then another guy comes by who has compassion. He cleans the injured fellow up the best he can, and then takes him to a hotel and pays out of his own pocket so the injured fellow can recover.
The punchline of the story was that the guy who helped was a Samaritan - the group that the Jews profiled as being creepy-ass crackers so-to-speak.
Jesus used this story to illustrate part of the Great Commandment - that we are to love our neighbour as ourselves.
It seems to be part of human nature that we stereotype the people we see as different from ourselves, treating them with fear and suspicion - which then so easily can spiral into hatred and violence.
Jesus said there is a different way. First and foremost we are to love God with all our heart and then we are to love our neighbour as ourselves. Instead of going out into the neighbourhood looking for trouble, we can go out with the attitude of showing kindness and compassion to those we come across.
And who is this neighbour whom we are to love? He is the Arabic guy who just needs a shave and the black kid in the hoodie.
