 Correction This story originally misspelled the author's name. The story has been corrected. CUTLINES reaction Lesley Rimmel: Apparently these men interpreted the (George Zimmerman) verdict as a green light to celebrate killing and racism . - Earlier this month, President Obama, reflecting on the trial of George Zimmerman in the death of Trayvon Martin, spoke of how he had many times experienced fear and prejudice aimed at him whenever he was "walking while black."  
He and many other Americans would be further dismayed to hear what some white Americans are saying when they believe only other whites can hear them. I recently witnessed a disturbing example of this in our area. On the evening of July 13, my companion and I had gone to Tulsa to see a show, "Dhadkan," a charming celebration of world culture as revealed through music and dance from various parts of the globe. On the way back home to Stillwater, we stopped for gasoline at a filling station just west of Sand Springs, in a quiet area. I went inside the station and waited for my friend to come in to pay. Soon my friend entered. There were a lot of people - all of them apparently white - waiting to pay the cashier. Suddenly two young men started laughing loudly, and one said, "Let's go down to the lake (presumably Keystone) and drown some n-----s." The other young man, also using the N-word, agreed and further embroidered on the idea. I was so taken aback that I froze in silence - where was I, in 1950s Alabama or Mississippi, or was this 1921 in Oklahoma? It was undoubtedly a good thing that I decided not to make this a teachable moment, as the two young men might have redirected their wish to commit violence at me. Whether they were serious or drunkenly joking was irrelevant. They had very publicly proclaimed their wishes. My friend and I quickly made our way to the door and out to the car. A middle-age man who had also been present at the scene then attempted to explain the two younger men's statements (with which he seemed to agree): Zimmerman had just been acquitted of second-degree murder and manslaughter in the death of Martin. Apparently these men interpreted the verdict as a green light to celebrate killing and racism. So this was how we received the news of the Zimmerman trial decision. We spent the rest of the ride home wondering how the shooting could not even rate a decision of manslaughter, or how such "stand your ground" laws could be overturned. We vowed not to go to Florida any time soon. But what haunted me most was what happened here in Oklahoma: two young men proudly expressing their glee at the sanctioned killing of a young African- American man. How many others in this country secretly share these feelings? And this case was not about racism? Lesley Rimmel is an associate professor of history at Oklahoma State University, where, among other courses, she teaches a seminar on the Holocaust. She lives in Stillwater. SUBHEAD: readers forum 
