Who is running this country?
If you follow the news about the security of this country, you know that this present White House administration leaves a little to be desired. 
 Take the IRS scandal or Benghazi, for example. Hillary Clinton, secretary of state, knew nothing about it and said, "What difference does it make anyway?" Attorney General Eric Holder, head of the Justice Department, knew nothing about it and President Barack Obama said he only heard about it on the news like everyone else.
 If they don't know about it, then who is running the country?
 Perhaps we should be grateful we have people like Edward Snowden. At least he knows what's going on.
 C.I. Greenwood
 Springfield
 Live with the Zimmerman decision
 Not much happens in this country anymore that someone or group will find reason to protest. This is especially true when prominent people (such as our president) goad them on.
 In my view, Barack Obama added fuel to a highly explosive situation by comparing himself to Trayvon Martin and saying, "This could have been me."
 Did he not realize the impact such a statement would have on others, or was this his intention?
 I'll be the last one to say our judicial system is always right or fair, but it's one of the things our nation was founded upon. Included is the right to trial by jury.
 George Zimmerman had his trial by jury and was found not guilty. Whether we agree or not, it was a jury decision. We live with it, and God willing we will move on.
 Jay Downey
 Farmersville
 Thomas earned Findley approval
 Paul Findley's praise for the "in your face" journalist, Helen Thomas (column last Thursday), helps assure her reputation as anti-Israeli, anti-Jewish.
 When Thomas said the Jews should "get the hell out of Palestine," she wasn't referring to settlements, she was targeting all the Jews in Israel. She said they should return to Germany and Poland. She was unconcerned that is where they were murdered by the millions.
 Findley, like Thomas, criticized the war on terror from the anti-Jewish, anti-Israeli perspective. Thomas, with her partisan and confrontational journalism, was not a fair reporter but earned Findley's approval without doubt.
 Mick Bray
 Virden
 Illinois lacks basic budgeting
 One of the first lessons in budgeting is to provide a small fund sufficient to pay for four to six weeks of fixed costs in the case of unexpected job loss, illness, or other interruption of income.
 Given that our legislators seem not to have learned that lesson (as evidenced by the quick offer of "payday loans") certainly illuminates a potential cause for the poor state of Illinois' budget in general and pension funds in particular.
 Jan Rakinic
 Springfield
