Austerity and global crisis in capitalism is amplifying racism across the world. It was Malcolm X who said that "you can't have capitalism without racism," and that remains true today. This current economic crisis bears witness to that fact. The US and Britain are nations where racism is deeply embedded in institutions and social attitudes, part of the political, economic, cultural and historical DNA of both countries, both the historical home of the global project of white supremacy.  
Today not only are they the most advanced nations in terms of neoliberalism, they have perfected the tactic of removing all traces of overt discrimination in law while leaving racism and its devastating effects intact. Anti-racists must redouble our efforts to expose this dangerous increase in global racism. Any student of history knows that when Western economies decline racism rises. That's why we are calling a protest to demonstrate our outrage at the sickening murder of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin in Florida last year and the subsequent scandalous acquittal of the man who killed him, George Zimmerman. Part of Zimmerman's defence was that Trayvon, who was wearing a hoodie, looked like a threat. The reality is that racism in both the US and British criminal justice systems means that black defendants or victims are viewed through a prism of prejudice that envelopes them in a powerful culture of doubt and disbelief. Majority white juries routinely disbelieve us and this perverts the search for the truth into grotesque caricature. I could bore you rigid with the disproportionate statistics relating to the massive number of black men both here and in the US who are ensnared by the criminal justice system. Trayvon's case has received international attention, much like that of our own Stephen Lawrence. Both are examples of how the overwhelming power of racism is able to subvert the judicial process to reflect discriminatory social attitudes. Women victims of rape will understand this more than most. Trayvon's case has resonated right across the entire world. Protests have gone global and here in Britain we are set to hold a demo tomorrow beginning at the US embassy. The protest is in solidarity with the Martin family and to add more international pressure on the US to charge Zimmerman under civil rights legislation. Then we march to No 10 Downing Street in support of Doreen and Neville Lawrence's demand for a full judicial public inquiry into the allegation that the Met Police sought to smear the family and supporters. We also demand a public inquiry into the recent spike in black deaths in police custody and the recent unlawful killing verdicts in British courts for both Azelle Rodney and Jimmy Mubenga. We all know the cases of Mark Duggan, Kingsley Burrell, Smiley Culture and many others. We want 5,000 people outside the US embassy and No 10 in hoodies in solidarity with Trayvon. As austerity bites, the Tories are determined to whip up racism and scapegoat immigrants and black and Muslim communities with the ills of the nation. Witness the unleashing of racism and racial terrorism in Britain, targeting Muslim women, children and mosques as a result of the activities of the repugnant and racist English Defence League. The political scapegoating of immigrants, black people and Muslims is the new crusade for this Cameron-led government that is seeking to distract public attention away from the real architects of our economic troubles, the bankers. Austerity is the magnifying glass that has amplified levels of racism in the US and Britain. Our reality as black people is that racism is always routinely denied. Here in Britain we are told that racism is a thing of the past. However the reality of racism has been given dramatic expression by President Obama's recent comments on Trayvon's case where he bore powerful witness to the everyday racism that black people face throughout their lives. Obama spoke of the routine and sometimes brutal reality of racism he faced as a young black man. Of course, as welcome as these words were for Trayvon's parents, they are undermined by the fact that he feels no such compassion for the children of Muslim families abroad. Obama's total support of the apartheid nation of Israel, the failure to close Guantanamo and the US imperial mission all render such words meaningless. His drones kill, maim and dismember Muslim children every day. When we look further at President Obama we see a man deeply compromised by his almost visceral domestic failure to address racism and his utter moral duplicity abroad. Racism is on the rise all over the world and anti-racists must now rise up to meet the challenge of a collapsing economy and resurgent racism fuelled by politicians seeking to divide communities. Join us. The protest will begin at Governor Square, London W1 tomorrow at 2pm (nearest Tube Bond Street)
