More than 700 protesters gathered at the state Capitol on Sunday afternoon to ask the U.S. Department of Justice to file charges against George Zimmerman in the shooting death of TrayvonMartin.
Hundreds of motorcyclists rode from Lithonia to the Capitol to join in the afternoon rally. The bikers roared down Washington Street in front of the Capitol at about 2:15 p.m.
"We want to support the TrayvonMartin movement," biker Rick Hamilton, from Florida, said, adding that Martin "represents a slew of other African-Americans" who have been denied justice.
"It's good that we see peaceful protests," he said.
Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch captain, was found not guilty on July 13 in the 2012 death of 17-year-old Martin in Sanford, Fla., after Zimmerman's attorneys successfully argued that he shot Martin out of self-defense while the unarmed black teenager was assaulting him.
This latest Martin rally was organized by the NAACP and featured Georgia State Conference NAACP President Edward O. DuBose, members of the Trained to Go Motorcycle Club and Derrick Boazman, host of "Too Much Truth."
Motorcycle club president Charles Ingram said his group has been following the Zimmerman case since the beginning and that the bikers were passionate to show their distaste of the verdict.
"We had to cut (the number of riders) off," he said. "Everybody was still coming, trying to participate in the ride."
At one point, the protesters chanted, "We want justice" and "We are Trayvon."
DuBose addressed the rally between chants, urging the community to ban together against the kind of violence he said was allowed in the Zimmerman case.
He told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that if the lawmakers don't want to change the law, people need to work to change the lawmakers.
"We want George Zimmerman prosecuted," he said. "This is about justice. I'm passionate. I'm emotional."
The group hoped to convince the Department of Justice to file federal charges against Zimmerman, including civil rights charges.
There have been more than 100 rallies across the country protesting the verdict. More than 75 people gathered for a Martin rally in Marietta on Saturday that had been rescheduled due to inclement weather the previous week.
Thousands of people took to the streets of downtown Atlanta to rally on July 20.
