The article "What to tell kids about Zimmerman trial verdict" is a disgrace to journalism and I was appalled the Tribune felt the need to publish it.
Aisha Sultan's writing (July 22) was a show of extreme bias. I have been increasingly frustrated with the number of people who have set opinions about the Zimmerman trial, who haven't even grazed the surface of facts available that indicate that Zimmerman was rightly acquitted.
Here is what you should really tell your kids about the Zimmerman verdict: 
First, the media makes this out to be an issue of race. Repeatedly, we are told Zimmerman shot Trayvon Martin because he was black or dressed "thuggish." Zimmerman shot Martin because Martin was slamming Zimmerman's head into cement. Zimmerman was fearful for his life.
Second, not everything is about race. Zimmerman tutors African-American children for free. Zimmerman has black relatives. Zimmerman is a proclaimed Democrat and supported both of the Obama campaigns. Kids, don't jump to conclusions about people.
Lastly, be glad that Zimmerman wasn't declared a murderer. Not because Martin deserved to die, but because it means that the justice system is doing its job preserving the standard of "innocent until proven guilty."
A jury of six women of varying races heard everything the defendants and prosecutors had to say. Unanimously, they declared Zimmerman had shot in an attempt to save his own life. This is not to say Zimmerman's behavior that day was laudable, but only that he had not gone outside the confines of the law.
This is important. It means that the justice system won't throw us in jail one day when we happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Death is always a tragedy, kids.
It's OK to be bothered.
It's OK to be sad.
It's OK to be frustrated.
But kids, ignorance is never OK.
In 2008, the nation's economy was stagnant while North Dakota thrived on a strong agricultural economy and a technology base on the east side of the state.
The start of the state's energy boom caught my attention. At the time, I led a small business in northern Minnesota that I had founded in 2003. While the business had done well and still does a visit to western North Dakota opened my eyes to the vast opportunity in the region for small business owners. Few other places offer entirely new markets where an entrepreneur can enter as the first provider of a good or service.
My family and I moved to Tioga, and we haven't regretted it. We have invested money and sweat into new businesses, volunteered throughout the community and enrolled our children in school. We are proud to call Tioga and western North Dakota our new home.
As small businesses continue to flow in, the area will become a better place to live and work. Its entrepreneurs will open restaurants, retail, and daily services that provide the simple pleasures of life to us all.
We feel fortunate to be a part of the growth of the area. The Bakken is full of folks who knew a better life was out there, said no to accepting hard times and handouts and chose the hard work of building businesses and careers, providing for their families, and helping secure our nation's energy supply.
The best news: There's still plenty of room to start new ventures and careers out here.
