Four days after a Florida jury acquitted George Zimmerman of murdering Trayvon Martin, U.S. marshals tracked Darryl Anderson to Birmingham, Ala. After a brief standoff, the 25-year-old thug on the lam from Baltimore emerged from an apartment with his hands in the air. 
While the verdict in the racially charged Florida case set off protests across the country, there were no demonstrations to celebrate Anderson's apprehension on July 17 --  but there should have been.
According to Baltimore police, Anderson is an enforcer for the Black Guerrilla Family, a West Coast gang that has planted deep roots in this Chesapeake Bay city that is in the throes of a tidal wave of gun violence.
Anderson is believed to be the gunman who on June 27 was called on to settle a dispute among a group of black women in a Baltimore neighborhood. One of the women reportedly summoned Anderson and another man to a street where the other women were seated on a front porch and said: "Do what y'all do."
Suspect in shooting
Police say Anderson then opened fire on the women, killing one and wounding the others. Three days later, police believe he broke into a home and shot a man  during a robbery. Cops have been hunting Anderson since he allegedly killed a man in Baltimore County last year.
After the women were brutally attacked, Baltimore police named Anderson the city's first Public Enemy No. 1. When he was arrested this month, they slapped that label on another member of the gang, 19-year-old Capone Chase.
Chase, who is accused of killing of a 21-year-old man who was made to kneel on a city playground in front of his pregnant girlfriend before two bullets were pumped into his head, didn't get far. He was arrested here Thursday, four days after cops had designated him their Most Wanted.
Black-on-black violence
Zimmerman's acquittal for killing the unarmed Martin had many activists up in arms. But the unrelenting slaughter of blacks by other blacks  continues to get scant attention.
That's got to change. What Zimmerman did to Martin should have landed him in jail. But  it is not the rare act of white-on-black killings that turns black neighborhoods  into killing fields. It's people like Anderson and Chase who are responsible for this mind-numbing violence.
Even Baltimore's prison was no deterrent for these guys.  For years the place was run by Tavon White, an inmate who was a member of their  gang. Prosecutors say White headed an operation that co-opted 13 prison guards and used them to haul drugs, cellphones and other contraband into the jail, where  he sold them to other inmates. White, prosecutors say, was heard on a wiretap bragging that he ran the prison. He claimed to have netted $16,000 in one month. He also allegedly impregnated four of the female guards, one of whom gave birth to two of his children.
As much as I am disappointed by the jury's verdict in the Zimmerman case, I'm outraged by the failure of the activists who protest it  to make what the Black Guerrilla Family gang is doing to black communities across this nation a target of their discontent.
DeWayne Wickham writes on Tuesdays for USA TODAY. 
