Subconscious abuzz with private thoughts
There are those who refuse to accept the injustice in the Trayvon murder trial. It annoys them. They swat away at their subconscious like a fly buzzing about their person.
Like the fly, they want questions to go away. Deep inside where they think private thoughts they know.
All of us have preconceived perceptions. I used to picture a gay man as weak. With the coming out of several gay sports superstars, I now know this is wrong. 
I remember the icon of the Mexican lazily sleeping under the palm tree with his sombrero and wide brim hat. If you have ever lugged a 50-pound sack of oranges around all day to make minimum wage for your family, you know that image is false.
That the Poles are stupid or the Irish are drunks is as wrong as the notion that our laws are equally applied.
I have a family member who has been stopped twice in the state of Arizona. He is a Mexican-American. There was no citation, no question, no other reason for the stop. His response was, "They're only doing their job."
My family member's ignorance of the Constitution notwithstanding, these incidents highlight the core of the belief of conservative, white Americans. You must look, act and support their view of America or you are not American.
I have another family member who is married to an openly racist white person. My relative is in complete acceptance of those views, and that is the problem.
For far too long, white progressives, minorities, gays, women and those who worship a different God have tried to blend into the conservative's color of America.
That is the other fly that buzzes around the dung-pile verdict of the TrayvonMartin murder trial.
-- Felix Sepulveda, San Bernardino
FDA ignored its findings and approved drug
The FDA ignored its own conclusions regarding Avandia and instead opted for a Risk Evaluation and Management Study. Thus Avandia, which is used to treat Type 2 diabetes, can be given now to patients who the FDA believes would benefit from the drug outweighing the risks they themselves determined. This is a ridiculous assumption made by non-medical people. There are so many non-lethal drugs that can be given.
Since President George W. Bush politicized the FDA in 2002, this agency under the president's cabinet has done nothing to regulate the drug industry, completely ignoring their sworn duty to protect the public. They are co-opted.
The FDA has not removed Vioxx from the market. Its maker, Merck Laboratories, took it off facing thousands of lawsuits from the families of the 80,000 victims.
Merck and the FDA both knew of the 340 percent increase in deaths of arthritic patients who were prescribed Vioxx before it was put on the market. Merck could possibly make and sell Vioxx again. The FDA has nothing against it.
And now they refuse to take Avandia, another diabetes drug, off the market. Don't take Avandia.
-- Tom Freeman, Pinon Hills
Coward is as coward does
In a July 16 letter to the editor, a reader from Chino wrote that a police officer was "a callous coward" over the shooting of a vicious dog at the scene of an arrest.
Since this reader's daddy didn't teach that reader this life lesson ... if you're not willing to call a man a coward to his face, that makes you one.
-- Mike Macias, Upland
