Ex-state rep should get prison time
Wow! I was shocked to read that another Illinois politician had pleaded guilty to fraud.
Former state Rep. Constance Howard, you need to go directly to jail and repay all of the money you stole from the contributors to the fund you established, for the sole purpose of lining your pockets with cash.
You are a thief and should be treated as a thief; spend some time in prison. 
When will this stop? Illinois politicians abusing their elected positions for their personal gain.
Tom Mattingly
Gurnee
Pension assumptions on returns unreliable
While we often hear the primary reason for the massive unfunded liability of the pension funds is due to "underfunding" by the state, that answer masks the primary cause -- unrealistic investment return assumptions by the pension funds. Using TRS data, the unfunded liability increased from about $11 billion in 2000 to about $52 billon in 2012. From their "Reconciliation of Unfunded Liability" reports, $22 billion of the $41 billion increase to its unfunded liability was due to annual "investment returns" lower than assumed.
Now here's the rub. In any given year should the state not immediately pay the necessary amount to cover the actuarial losses causing the unfunded liability to increase, then the lost investment income for the larger unfunded liability balance for all subsequent years gets attributed to "employer costs in excess of contributions," also known as "underfunding."
Since 2000, taxpayers contributed over $21 billion toward TRS pensions, which was meant to cover just the $10 billion employer "normal cost." Instead it was fully consumed by the $22 billion "investment return" overestimation. Mostly because of these investment return misses, the unfunded liability increased each year despite the taxpayers paying more than twice what they should have. And just like the owner of a credit card who doesn't pay the full month end balance, it simply gets worse when the interest charges get added to the unpaid amount.
By keeping its investment return assumptions so high, the pension funds hide the true cost of pensions. In June the Illinois Policy Institute suggested that should the pension funds use investment rates of return prescribed by Moody's, the current actuarially computed unfunded liability could double. However, reflecting the true cost might highlight that employees are not paying enough toward their very generous pensions, something the unions don't want to hear.
Mark Evenson
Palatine
Guns don't ensure a safer community
Much has been written about the right of George Zimmerman to stand his ground and defend himself, thus justifying his shooting and killing of TrayvonMartin when Martin held him down. Less has been said about Martin's right to defend himself when stalked by an unknown assailant. Had he no right to stand his ground and defend himself when being approached?
The issue is not whether one should be able to stand his ground and defend himself when attacked but what weapons should be permitted for this purpose; The more lethal the weapon the more risky the outcome. Martin was innocent of wrong doing and Zimmerman, in spite of not heeding instruction from a police dispatcher, apparently thought he was a law-abiding citizen protecting his neighborhood. This tragic event make a lie of the argument that guns in the hands of law abiding citizens make for a safer community.
Don Sutherland
Glen Ellyn
Choice of Trayvon photo devisive
Can anyone tell me why our unbiased media keep showing an old picture of Trayvon where he actually looked like the innocent child instead of the real Trayvon? I'm sure if President Obama had seen a recent picture he never would have made his "if I had a son" comment. Of course that picture will help Jesse, Al and Eric with their agendas. Way to keep racism alive and well in America. The divide grows wider.
Donna Stohr
Arlington Heights
Expedite permits for natural gas exports
There must be tens of thousands of Illinoisans who recognize the enormous economic benefits to be derived from the exportation of liquefied natural gas (LNG) from the United States to the rest of the world. It would be nice if every one of us wrote to U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz and encouraged him to speed up the export-permit approval process.
That really isn't necessary, however, because Sen. Mark Kirk has already done so for us. In a letter cosigned with 33 other U.S. senators, Kirk thanked Secretary Moniz for his department's recent approval of a second LNG export permit and urged him to "make decisions on the remaining applications in an expeditious manner." Kirk and his colleagues emphasized the environmental and geopolitical benefits of increased gas exports, pointing out that U.S. LNG can "curtail the need for Iranian energy" and ensure secure energy supplies for "long-standing allies and strategic partners."
Time is of the essence, however. If the permit review process were to be drawn out over a two-year period as currently anticipated, "By then, the private financing and market opportunities making these projects attractive may have dissipated," Sen. Kirk, et al. warned, "and foreign customers will be forced to turn to other suppliers. ..."
Liquefied natural gas exports will create and support thousands of jobs for American workers who are currently unemployed or underemployed -- engineering jobs, manufacturing jobs, construction jobs, support services jobs, etc. LNG exports will spur domestic gas production and increase state and federal government revenues, too, reduce our nation's trade deficit, and improve U.S. energy security. Sen. Kirk should be congratulated for passing on this vital message to Secretary Moniz. He probably wouldn't mind if we wrote our own letters, too.
Brian Kasal
State chairman
Illinois Energy Forum
Chicago
Is Florida tourism safe after verdict?
One aspect of the aftermath of the Zimmerman verdict that I have not heard about is the potential impact on Florida's all-important tourism. More specifically, I wonder if families of any color are asking themselves, "Is it safe for us to go there?"
Imagine the scenario: The family arrives in Orlando and stops for dinner. In the parking lot a couple "good ol' boys" who have had a little too much to drink (not too hard to imagine) confronts them and asks what "they" are doing in their town.
With Florida's "Pick a Fight and Come Out Firing" law, any normal resistance to these guys could be deadly, if they are among the many carrying weapons.
Laws have consequences. This could be an unintended one.
Roger Gallentine
Geneva
