This is a sampling from Bay Area News Group's Political Blotter blog. Read more and post comments atwww.ibabuzz.com/politics .
July 24
The Republican National Committee, working in partnership with the California Republican Party, announced Tuesday it has hired 23-year-old San Diego campaign operative Clinton Soffer as the party's state director for California. 
Soffer's mandate is to oversee GOP field operations as the besieged California party works to rebuild from the ground up.
"We are thrilled to welcome Clinton on board; his expertise and experience will be an asset to our team as we look forward to 2014 and beyond," state party Chairman Jim Brulte said in a news release. "I'm confident Clinton will help us build a formidable ground operation to compete for every vote, register new voters, and expand our outreach efforts into new communities across the state."
RNC Chairman Reince Priebus said the party is "building the most expansive field program the GOP has ever seen, and we're doing it earlier than ever before."
"Republicans have never made this kind of investment in an off year," he said. "The RNC will be in communities engaging with and listening to voters where they live, work and worship -- not months, but years before Election Day. Our state directors will play key roles in building a permanent field operation to be successful in elections this year, in 2014, in 2016, and beyond."
According to his LinkedIn profile, Soffer got his political start working on a pair of San Diego City Council races in 2008. He then served as political director of the Lincoln Club of San Diego County for the 2010 primary and on the San Diego GOP for that year's general election.
Soffer managed Scott Sherman's 2012 primary race for the San Diego City Council. Sherman narrowly won the race outright, avoiding a runoff. He then managed former Assembly Republican Leader George Plescia's unsuccessful race for the state Senate last November. He also has worked as a staffer for several San Diego officials and state lawmakers.
July 26
Rep. Barbara Lee will host a screening of "Fruitvale Station," the critically acclaimed movie about the last day of BART police shooting victim Oscar Grant, with other lawmakers next week in Washington, D.C.
Lee, D-Oakland, is organizing the event in conjunction with the Congressional Black Caucus, the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the Congressional Progressive Caucus.
"It is an especially timely film considering the tragic murder of Trayvon Martin and resulting verdict," Lee wrote in an invitation.
Lee's office says Grant's mother, Wanda Johnson, is planning to attend.
The screening is scheduled for 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. The invitation says lawmakers will be offered transportation from the Rayburn House Office Building at 7 p.m. or immediately after the day's last votes.
