Protesters in their second week sitting in at Gov. Rick Scott's office said Tuesday they plan to hold a mock special session to heighten attention on issues affecting minority youth.
They also are turning up pressure on Scott, who has refused their demand to reconvene lawmakers. Beginning next week, organizers said "Takeover Tuesdays" will be held at the Florida Capitol, featuring guest speakers and special discussion sessions.
"The governor has told us that he loves people. We want to give him a lot of people," said Phillip Agnew, executive director of Dream Defenders, the grass-roots organization leading the protest that grew out of George Zimmerman's acquittal in the shooting death of teenager TrayvonMartin.
As he has done most of the time since the protest began last week, Scott was traveling away from the Capitol, meeting with mayors Tuesday in West Palm Beach. Asked by The Palm Beach Post if he was ducking demonstrators, Scott said, "no."
"I mean, I cover the state, I travel the state. I'm there (in Tallahassee) more during the session," Scott said outside the Palm Beach Cafe after a meeting with mayors Jeri Muoio of West Palm Beach, Bert Premuroso of Palm Beach Gardens and Pam Triolo of Lake Worth and Deputy Mayor Susan Haynie of Boca Raton.
Asked when he expects to be back in his Tallahassee office, Scott said, "Probably next week sometime."
The few dozen protesters, whose numbers have climbed to about 100 some days, said they plan to be waiting when he returns.
Agnew said leaders have spoken via Skype with activists in Raleigh, N.C., where "Moral Mondays" have been held for more than two months by hundreds of protesters opposing that state's Republican-led legislative agenda, which includes an expansion of education privatization and a new voter ID law.
GOP leaders have tried to ignore the North Carolina protesters, who have gathered outside the Legislature's chambers all but one day since April 29.
While Scott and Florida leaders say they have no plans to disrupt the Capitol protest, in North Carolina more than 900 people have been arrested at demonstrations over the past 10 weeks.
Agnew said activists Tuesday were making plans to apply for necessary permits to hold the larger "Takeover Tuesday" events and mock legislative session on Capitol grounds.
Dream Defenders also is applying with the state's Department of Agriculture, allowing them to be a "solicitor of contributions" to help raise money for food, transportation and other costs tied to the protest.
The Florida Department of Law Enforcement reported that, through Monday, security costs for the protest week were $97,971 -- with daily costs running more than double the usual. Capitol police had beefed up staff on duty and canceled days off.
"We would like a national conversation about this," Agnew said. "I don't see why, that after the horrible year that Florida has had, we can't use this opportunity to rehabilitate the image of all Floridians.
"When you go anywhere else, people think of Florida (as) not so good," he added. "It looks like Florida's not friendly to children unless you go to Disney."
Activists said they want the mock special session and Takeover Tuesdays to include discussion of racial profiling in Florida, the state's "stand your ground" law and what they call a school-to-prison pipeline for minorities.
"What we are doing is gathering legislators, advocates and experts in the field of juvenile justice and criminal justice in Florida, along with testimony from communities around the state," said Ciara Taylor of Dream Defenders.
Taylor said the fact-finding revealed at the mock session and weekly gatherings should prod the state's lawmakers to take action -- soon, or at least in next spring's legislative session.
"We are willing to do the research, the analysis, we are willing to listen to testimony they failed to listen to in the last legislative session," Taylor said.
Scott met with protesters Thursday night, huddling with seven leaders of the rally but refusing to budge on stand your ground. House Speaker Will Weatherford, R-Wesley Chapel, and Senate President Don Gaetz, R-Niceville, also have said they see no reason to revisit the self-defense measure approved in 2005. Stand your ground was not used by Zimmerman in fighting second-degree murder charges. But the measure did shape instructions given by the judge to jurors who acquitted Zimmerman.
Wansley Walters, secretary of the state's Department of Juvenile Justice, met with protesters for about four hours Monday, fielding complaints about the system's treatment of minority youth and defending the administration's performance.
Activists, though, said that too often, state officials and school administrators dismiss minority concerns and enact laws aimed at managing them rather than trying to promote a society where racism isn't present.
Melanie Andrade, a Dream Defender chapter president at Florida A&M University, said Tuesday that she grew up in suburban Polk County, living in three gated communities where she was still questioned by police about what she was doing walking in the neighborhood. "Stand your ground did not fail TrayvonMartin," Andrade said. "TrayvonMartin went through what we go through every day ... being criminalized on our front lawns and in our driveways."
Among activists newly arrived Tuesday at the Capitol was Didier Ortiz, 21, a senior at Florida Atlantic University. He was active with Dream Defenders this year when students at the school's Boca Raton campus protested the plan to name FAU's football stadium after the GEO Group, the private prison company.
Ortiz, who planned to stay a night in the Capitol before returning to class, said he thought the sit-in would eventually extract a concession from Scott.
"It has a psychological impact, when you have someone outside your office every single day," Ortiz said. "We are keeping up the pressure. It will make a difference."
jkennedy@pbpost.com Twitter: @jkennedyreport; gbennett@pbpost.com Twitter: @gbennettpost
