ORLANDO, Fla. | The second juror from the George Zimmerman trial to speak publicly told ABC's Robin Roberts she thought Zimmerman was guilty and that he "got away with murder." 
Juror B-29, the only minority juror from the controversial trial, is identified only as "Maddy" during her interview, which is detailed at abcnews.com.
The names of the jurors have not yet been made public.
She told court officials during jury selection that she is a certified nursing assistant in an Alzheimer's ward. She is 36 years old, Puerto Rican, married and has several children.
She lived in Chicago at the time Zimmerman shot and killed 17-year-old TrayvonMartin.
Roberts conducted the interview with "Maddy" on Thursday morning after "Good Morning America."
According to a recap of the interview on abcnews.com, Maddy told Roberts: "George Zimmerman got away with murder, but you can't get away from God. And at the end of the day, he's going to have a lot of questions and answers he has to deal with."
"Maddy" said when she and her fellow jurors began deliberations, she favored convicting Zimmerman of second-degree murder.
But on the second day of deliberations, Maddy said, she realized there wasn't enough evidence to convict Zimmerman of murder.
"That's where I felt confused, where if a person kills someone, then you get charged for it," Maddy told Roberts. "But as the law was read to me, if you have no proof that he killed him intentionally, you can't say he's guilty."
Maddy said she feels that she owes an apology to Trayvon's parents because she feels "like I let them down."
But Maddy explained how the jury arrived at its acquittal: "You can't put the man in jail even though in our hearts we felt he was guilty," she said. "But we had to grab our hearts and put it aside and look at the evidence."
The first portions of the interview will air on "World News With Diane Sawyer" on Thursday.
More of the exclusive interview will be seen Thursday night on "Nightline." The full interview will air Friday on "Good Morning America."
Maddy is represented by attorney David Chico of Celebration, Fla. Attempts to reach him Thursday were not immediately successful.
The first juror to talk to the press was B-37, who was photographed in shadows when she spoke to CNN's Anderson Cooper.
It is unknown when the juror names will be revealed.
They were granted anonymity because of the high-profile nature of the trial.
Defense attorneys have asked Circuit Judge Debra Nelson to extend that anonymity for six months. She has made no ruling.
Media attorneys have opposed the idea, saying that to assure that trials remain an open and public process juror names should not be kept secret.
