Beach's marketing needs work
The recent meeting of the Volusia County Tourist Development Council included the Daytona Beach Convention and Visitors Bureau's chief executive applauding the new "Seize the Daytona" ad campaign. However, the effort has been described by The News-Journal's opinion page editor as "bland and puzzling." Two county business leaders offered that the ad campaign "stinks," and that many people who see the message on the billboards "just don't get it."
The marketing director of the Ocean Center presented the Ocean Center sales kit and video, which feature inanimate sidewalks, hallways, arena, classrooms, etc. The visual image appears to emphasize a beautiful, cavernous, empty building. Is this not the core problem with the Ocean Center -- too much empty space? For a dramatic comparison, one should view the attention-capturing, action- packed San Diego Convention Center's "stay for the vacation" video (best viewed on full screen) and interactive floor plan. 
A real gem can be found on the Ocean Center video website, where voice-over copy boasts that the arena hosts everything, including "menacing machinery" -- and utilizes a photo of a shiny fire truck. The vehicle that children still wave at and crave to climb on, and carries our first responders, is "menacing machinery?"
The Main Street Pier/Daytona Beach website still features a full- page photo spread of the iconic Space Needle observation tower ride, which was dismantled in September 2012. Visitors are also encouraged to consider riding in a Sky Lift gondola, also removed.
A pier/tower photo is also included in the new Ocean Center sales kit.
Distinguished, brand-building work? Indeed.
CHRISTOPHER R. BELL
New Smyrna Beach
Bell, of New Smyrna Beach, is a retired CEO and marketing/ advertising executive with domestic and international experience with emphasis on tourism, and has volunteered at the Southeast Volusia Advertising Authority.
A beach-loving neighbor
I am writing in response to the proposed beach toll increase for non-Volusia County residents.
I have been traveling from Seminole County to Volusia County every Saturday (weather permitting) to enjoy "The World's Most Famous Beach" for more Than 15 years. Each year, I have purchased a beach pass that I certainly get my money's worth from (though it almost didn't happen in 2004).
I not only support the beach vendors, but also the restaurants and gas stations nearby. It costs me about $30 round trip to travel to Daytona Beach each week. My seasonal beach pass, which is paid for one time at the beginning of the season, is one less expense to consider when I pack my car each week.
I understand that you may want to increase beach tolls some day, but please do it for the right reasons. Please don't forget about us day trippers who are very willing to come to your area and spend money.
Forty dollars is a good cost for a non-resident pass. Please remember that those of us who live further than half a mile from the beach are not even guaranteed a parking spot on a ramp or beach after driving an hour and spending $30 in gas.
SHER MILLER
Altamonte Springs
Change Florida's gun law
My view is that George Zimmerman's reckless aggression, in spite of a 911 operator's advice to "back off," precipitated the killing of TrayvonMartin, an unarmed young man with Skittles and some iced tea. This reprehensible act makes George Zimmerman responsible for manslaughter, at the least, from a moral perspective in my mind. All other issues in this case are subordinated to Zimmerman's unwarranted aggression, the way I see it. How tragic -- the unjust death of a young man, and that the killer is not held accountable, being acquitted by a jury of only six and not 12.
Florida's "stand your ground" law, so unfortunately perpetrated by the gun lobby and in place in almost half of our states, cries out for change, if not elimination, by morally-minded justice- seekers. Without appropriate change or even deletion, morally-based justice in Florida cannot be a reality. It makes me think of myself not as Floridian in the best sense, but merely as a resident, and not a proud one at that.
JERRY A.VALCIK
Ormond Beach
Respect jury verdict
George Zimmerman certainly should not have followed TrayvonMartin. He should have waited for the police. But he didn't. He was concerned because he saw a young black man in a hoodie. He did not see the baby-faced boy whose picture has been shown repeatedly. What he saw was a grown man, taller and stronger than himself.
He saw what looked like the image portrayed to us by many "gangsta" rappers and adherents to the "thug" lifestyle. So it is understandable why Zimmerman was concerned. TrayvonMartin's appearance and dress fit a criminal stereotype. But like many other mistaken impressions, he was not involved in any crimes.
Evidence seen by the jury showed that TrayvonMartin was on top of Zimmerman, beating him. Ask yourself what you would do if you were in Zimmerman's position?
The jury answered that question. Zimmerman was found not guilty. He acted in self-defense, the God-given right of self-preservation that all creatures will exercise when their life and well-being is threatened. There was no evidence of any racial biases.
Yet, the NAACP and the Congressional Black Caucus, who claim to decry injustice, have gotten 1 million signatures urging the Department of Justice to charge Zimmerman with civil rights violations -- and put him in prison for an act of lawful self- defense.
It is a tragedy that a young man died. My heart goes out to his family. There are no winners in this. But this attempted lynching by groups that claim to be interested only in justice is nothing short of an outrage.
What makes this especially despicable is that it is being lead by men of God like the "most right reverends" Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton, and our own Rev. Ronald Durham.
DAN PRICE
Port Orange
Law was misapplied
African-Americans are not the only ones appalled at the Zimmerman verdict. From the TV news and news programs, you would assume they are the only ones who care about justice and TrayvonMartin.
It makes me angry to see anyone that willfully takes another's life and then be exonerated. The "stand your ground" law is not the problem -- it is a good law, but the courts allow it when it is not applicable.
Instigating a confrontation, then killing someone, is not "stand your ground." To correct the problem, give the jurors a booklet of instructions about the crime, listing a myriad of exceptions, possibilities and hypotheticals to read before reaching a verdict. People of any color, looking for justice from our courts, are disappointed and angry when they see killers go unpunished.
DOUGLAS CHANDLER GRAHAM
Holly Hill
Time to seek harmony
The state v. George Zimmerman trial ended over a week ago. The jury deliberated for 16 hours, unanimously reaching a not-guilty verdict.
Yes, a man died. That was the biggest tragedy of this whole episode. Perhaps George Zimmerman should have not followed TrayvonMartin. Perhaps Martin should have gone home, rather than stay in the area. A number of variables could have prevented this. However, other options were chosen. Zimmerman had his day in court, and we must all respect the decision.
However many people disagree with the verdict. The trial is over, Zimmerman is a free man, and there are still rallies and marches, and speeches by both political and non-political individuals.
Where was the outrage when O.J. Simpson was found not guilty of butchering his wife and a friend?
Either way, rallies are scheduled. Some are peaceful, some are not.
I would have rallied against the O. J. Simpson verdict, but I had a job and had an obligation to go to work.
What is a racial rally without "Reverends" Sharpton and Jackson? These two only add fire to the issues when they get involved.
Even the U.S. attorney general wants to rewrite the law. Just like his mentor, Barack Obama, who continues to rewrite the Constitution.
We need to pray for TrayvonMartin and racial harmony.
THOMAS SISTI
Palm Coast
