Keeping an eye on children's safety at day cares
While troubling to read, the article "Day care evades the law" (July 15) on the city's closing of a state-licensed child care center plagued by safety and financial problems offered insights into ways we can better protect our children in child care.
Families, professionals, state and local officials are all part of the "eyes and ears" that keep child care programs healthy and safe places for our kids. By observing and listening and communicating with each other, we help ensure that safety standards are in place every day.
Coordinated and reasonable enforcement of sensible regulations for child care programs should be in place - requirements that do not duplicate or conflict with each other, as state and local codes sometimes do. Instead, requirements should form a cohesive set of standards that safeguard children's well-being and are feasible for programs to maintain. 
Many child care programs abide by rules governing payments and safety but don't make headlines, and some families are fortunate to have access to these programs. Regrettably, too many families do not: The reality is that many working parents still struggle to find the program that matches their schedules, is within the family budget, meets their child's needs, and is available when the family needs it.
Ten years ago, a similar story ("Children sent home after official inspects day-care sites," 2003) raised the same issues when city inspectors closed down an unlicensed child care center due to unsafe conditions. This center claimed exemption from state regulations due to a loophole in the existing law allowing school-operated programs to claim exemption from state oversight without proper documentation on file. Because of the "eyes and ears" who reported the deplorable conditions and because communication was shared between local and state officials, legislation was passed bringing greater accountability to child care programs claiming exemption. This is a prime example of improved policies resulting from coordinated efforts to make child care better for kids.
We can, and should, work together to bring about changes in accountability and resources that directly benefit children in care.
Pam Mitchell o St. Louis United 4 Children
Obamacare's critics understand its costs
The Post-Dispatch's editorial "Last gasp" (July 21) suggests that Republicans are opposed to the Affordable Care Act because they value the political capital they would gain from its failure more than supposedly lower health insurance costs and fewer sick people. If only it were that simple.
The editorial cites a study that claims Obamacare's health exchanges will drive down costs in states such as New York by 50 percent. However, New York is an outlier - it already has laws on the books to require coverage of pre-existing conditions. Most states don't, so New York's costs will obviously fall when such coverage becomes mandatory under federal law and the pool of subscribers expands. But since New York's costs are currently 63 percent higher than the national average, even with the 50 percent decrease in prices, insurance there will still be more costly than in most places right now. Not to mention this decrease is paid for by Americans from across the country.
If opposing Obamacare affords political capital, it's because a growing majority of Americans recognize that the costs of the program outweigh the benefits. Whether it's more expensive premiums for the young and healthy, lower quality care, or less consumer choice, there are plenty of legitimate reasons to oppose the ACA.
Austin Woods o University City
Rule of law must be independent from political interference
In light of TrayvonMartin's death and the subsequent acquittal of George Zimmerman, it seems many only respect court decisions when they agree with the outcome.
Had O.J. Simpson been found guilty, the aftermath would not have been peaceful. Why didn't the Justice Department look into that decision?
Our president missed a great opportunity when he chose to be black, when he is also white. What a unifying force he could have been: a biracial president!
If the rule of law is not independent from political interference, we will eventually slip into anarchy. Race will be the least of our worries. A country divided against itself can not endure; we tried that once: the Civil War.
William L. Frazier o Valley Park
TrayvonMartin was stalked, attacked
What is the first thing we tell our children if they are being followed, stalked, or attacked by a stranger? We tell them to kick, scream, hit, fight, punch, hide, take short cuts home, call for help; anything to escape the stranger.
TrayvonMartin had every right to be in his father's neighborhood - armed only with Skittles and ice tea. George Zimmerman was told to stand down and ignored the dispatcher. TrayvonMartin saw a stranger in a car following him, later following him on foot. This would frighten all of us. The horror of our children being attacked by a stranger is unbearable as a parent.
TrayvonMartin acted in the only way he knew how. Protect yourself. For this TrayvonMartin is dead and George Zimmerman is free.
Malcolm Murphy o St. Peters
Jury did not consider TrayvonMartin to be a victim
President Obama said "TrayvonMartin could have been me" (July 20). Well would "me" have refused to dialog with a neighborhood watch person and instead brutally attacked this person with intent to harm or even kill him? Would "me," before that fatal incident, have been on suspension for drug possession? Would "me" have been suspended from high school several times for truancy, vandalism, etc.? Would "me" have used social media to spread a stream of violent rhetoric? If so then could "me" have been elected to higher office or become president of the United States? Should "me" be considered a victim regardless of my actions?
In the particular case of TrayvonMartin, a sworn jury when considering the facts did not think so.
Orville Burkemper o Des Peres
Floaters who don't respect property rights are frustrating
Regarding the editorial "Stand Your Gravel Bar" (July 24):
I agree with the author that no one need have died in order to take a pee. But, as a property owner with land on the Meramec River, I can understand the frustration and anger that James Crocker has toward some floaters.
We have property along the upper Meramec, with a very nice gravel bar and swimming area. We also maintain some camping area for friends to use, and that is inside the tree line, off the river. For the most part, river floaters are respectful of our property. However, we have found that large groups often are not respectful. When they leave the river, and go up into our camping area, they do not respect private property. If they use the outhouse we built, this is not a problem for us, but they will often leave trash behind, toilet paper on the ground or destroy parts of the building.
Larger groups seem to be the ones most intoxicated, leaving behind trash on the gravel bar. Several times, when we were swimming, the men exposed themselves to our children, or went to the gravel bar to pee near our chairs and coolers. Since exposing yourself to a child is illegal in a city, why do they seem to feel this is appropriate on the river? These people have even given alcohol, in the form of Jell-O shots, to my children.
We have learned that we must avoid our swimming hole until after 3 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays, because most of the groups have passed our place by then. We are afraid to go to our own part of the river because of the confrontations we've had with these groups.
For Mr. Crocker's situation, he found a group of more than 40 people stopping at this gravel bar. Some of the men ignored his private property/no trespassing signs and left the gravel bar to go pee and defecate on Mr. Crocker's land. When he told them to return to the river, they refused. The argument increased to threats at that point. This confrontation did not have to result in a death. The floaters should have respected the landowner's signs.
If floaters just respect the private property along our rivers, we could all enjoy them in safety, and avoid situations like this one.
Eugene Hanneke o Ellisville
Crestwood administration demeans citizens
For the first time, I was privileged to participate in an event that speaks to the core of our democracy. A large group of concerned citizens in Crestwood held a peaceful rally and prayed for progress at Crestwood mall. We were exercising our right of free assembly and free speech to express our frustration with the current city leaders and their lack of action.
During the subsequent Board of Aldermen meeting, an overflow crowd expressed their views and the three-minute rule was invoked, as it very rarely is, but of course there were exceptions. During the meeting, the concerned citizens were subjected to condescending and uninformed elected officials. This happens in a community where due diligence is attacked and the current administration seeks to be the gatekeeper for all information and only lets those who support the lack of vision have access to all the data.
For expressing their opinions, the plugged-in citizens were termed the "peanut gallery," which demeaned them and their efforts. Enthusiastic applause was considered inappropriate by some, maybe those with no passion for a vibrant community. I hope the elected officials in my hometown realize there are steps the voters can take when they have no confidence in the current leadership.
Mimi Duncan o Crestwood
Be careful about accusing Schnucks of discrimination
Regarding the letter "Neighborhood's Schnucks store is disappointing" (July 22):
I would be interested to know what percentage of sales at the Schnucks on Grand and Gravois comes from fresh produce. My guess is far less than at many of their other locations. I live within a few miles of this Schnucks and the Loughborough Schnucks. I shop at the Loughborough location because I know they carry more things that I purchase. But I am glad the Grand and Gravois location exists because we already have problems with "food deserts" in the city.
While I don't condone displaying poor quality merchandise, we should be careful about accusing Schnucks of discrimination for something which is more likely a question of what sells at these locations. They may decide that it's not worth it and close their stores in these neighborhoods making the food desert problem even worse. I shop at Schnucks partially because they do have stores in the city, even though I'm sure some of them are not as profitable due to higher costs, including higher produce waste costs, I would guess.
Rod Hansen o St. Louis
Produce clerks are responsible for keeping asparagus fresh
I have read all the articles on the dried-out asparagus at the Schnucks store, and the letter about the poor standards of some of the other Schnucks stores. As a retired employee of Retail Clerks Local 655 - 10 years with Kroger and 20 years with Dierbergs - I had to voice my opinion on this subject.
First, and most importantly, the produce department is the responsibility of the produce clerks. As a produce clerk, I took pride in my products that were on display and always made sure that my customers were happy. I can't imagine telling a customer that I was aware of the moldy onions and not taking them off the display.
As far as the asparagus situation, we always removed the old water and replaced with fresh water everyday. If the produce or any other product in the store is bad, it is the responsibility of the department managers to make it right.
Josie Consiglio o Imperial
