The lobby of the governor's office is an attractive target for sit-ins. On the first floor of the 22-story Capitol, it's highly visible and symbolically potent. Oftentimes, though, it's better suited to getting headlines than direct results, as the sit-in over Florida's "stand your ground" law shows. 
The protesters arrived a week ago today, three days after a jury found George Zimmerman not guilty of murdering TrayvonMartin in Sanford last year. They have vowed not to leave until Gov. Rick Scott calls a special legislative session to repeal the controversial self-defense law.
But the chances of that happening are close to zero, as Gov. Scott has said. Indeed, calling a special session would be an empty exercise, since there's little indication that the Legislature has any interest in repealing or significantly altering the law. If change is going to come, it has to begin at the ballot box.
There is a great deal to dislike about stand your ground, which was the first of its kind when state legislators approved it in 2005. The law removed the requirement that people, outside their home, try to escape a dangerous situation before using force to defend themselves. There was outcry when it was passed, but it faded quickly, even as the law began to be used across the state to help prevent arrests and convictions in dozens of homicide cases.
The death of TrayvonMartin changed all of that. While Mr. Zimmerman did not raise a stand-your-ground defense in court, the law's self-defense protections are so broad that they initially prompted prosecutors not to charge him, triggering widespread protests. Since then, the law has received the sort of scrutiny it should have had before it was passed, with President Barack Obama and Attorney General Eric Holder among the many now calling for reviews.
Traditional self-defense laws are necessary, but the stand your ground law takes them to an absurd extent. By removing the requirement that people try to avoid confrontations before acting, the law encourages aggression, making it more likely that people will die.
When people do die, investigating these cases is more difficult than ever. As Mr. Martin's death underscored, claims of self-defense are easy to make and difficult to disprove when only one person survives. An investigation by The Tampa Bay Times last year found that the law had helped drug dealers and gang members go free after killing rivals. The Times cited cases in which people used the law to escape punishment after shooting others in the back or while they were on the ground. If no changes are made, these sorts of cases will keep occurring.
The law, if not repealed outright, should be amended so that people who provoke a confrontation cannot easily invoke it in a self-defense claim. With sufficient political pressure, this can happen. Outcry over changes in the state's voting laws forced legislators this year to repeal them. It can happen again if those who oppose this dangerous law channel their frustration into campaigns.
Andrew Marra for The Post Editorial Board
