THE 'REAL HOUSEWIVES of New York" have gone primal.
"RHONY" castmates Heather Thomson, LuAnn de Lesseps, Ramona Singer and Kristen Taekman are coming off a week of feeding on red meat and stockpiling camping gear for an upcoming trip to the mountains.
The suddenly grizzly quartet (from l., Thomson, Singer and de Lesseps; below, Taekman) was recently spied devouring steak at the Meatpacking District's Old Homestead Steakhouse, where they were joined by four male pals.
"No tofu, no alfalfa sprouts, no grilled veggies on this check," joked one witness to the carnage. "Just a lot of red meat and testosterone."
Staffers were seen presenting the lipstick-wearing carnivores with two slabs of 2-inch-thick, 44-ounce Gotham rib steaks that one spy compared to "something out of the 'Flintstones." That bounty of bovine was followed by Texas T-bone and sirloin steaks, and mounds of creamed spinach, truffle mac and cheese, and garlic mashed potatoes. De Lesseps' French boyfriend, Jacques Azoulay, selected matching wines. 
Before that, the table was covered with straight-from-the-net appetizers, including giant seafood towers stacked with chilled jumbo shrimp, lobster, oysters, clams and crabmeat.
Sources tell us the ladies had worked up an appetite early that day with a three-hour shopping spree at SoHo's Eastern Mountain Sports, where they stocked up on supplies for the upcoming camping trip to the Berkshires, where Thomson has a home.
"The shopping spree was hilarious, watching these hot babes in their heels, makeup and body-hugging dresses shopping for - of all things - camping gear," says one "Housewives" insider. "Roughing it in the woods just doesn't seem like their thing."
It may not be. While mapping out their plan at the steakhouse, a couple of "RHONY" castmates were heard saying that if the going got tough, they were going to Thomson's house for running water, air conditioning and the sort of things they've come to expect. But according to our snitch, getting that plan by Thomson may be tricky.
"Thomson has the whole weekend planned," says our spy. "She's going to be like a camp drill sergeant. She's taking them on a hike in the morning, fishing in the afternoon. This doesn't sound like a trip for makeup - or the squeamish."
It's possible the Housewives developed a taste for blood during talks leading up to season six, which began filming slightly behind schedule in mid-May after tense contract disputes between Bravo network executives and the stars.
BEYONC ON TOP OF THE NEWS
Beyonc has excellent taste in New York City newspapers. After The News put a photo of Bey, her husband, Jay Z, the Rev. Al Sharpton and TrayvonMartin's mother at a "Justice for Trayvon" march in New York on the Sunday cover, Mrs. Carter (l.) posted a photo of The News' cover on Instagram. Nice to know the queen of hip hop starts her day with cereal, Fiji water and New York's Hometown Newspaper.
TAT HASN'T QUITE KLUM OFF YET
This seal is definitely endangered. After spending a few topless days and nights with her children and new boyfriend Martin Kirsten in Bora Bora, Heidi Klum was spotted at LAX revealing the remnants of the "Seal" tattoo (above) she used to have on her right forearm. Klum, who turned 40 in June, was married to singer Seal for seven years until their split last year. Although the ink appears to have been removed, that tat is clearly skin-deep.
MORGAN: YOU GOTTA BELIEVE (IN YOURSELF )
"30 Rock" star Tracy Morgan (r.) told Daily News editor Zach Haberman about the importance of believing in yourself after performing at the Stand comedy club in Gramercy Sunday night. "It's all about confidence," he exclaimed. "Look at me. I don't even have a GED, and I make $10 million a year." He then translated his philosophy to the bedroom. "Confidence. If you're making love to a woman and your arms are shaking, she's not having a good time."
NFL PICKS UP A KEY BLOCH
Since shoulder pads and helmets aren't flattering on most women, NFL Women's Apparel has hired Phillip Bloch (above) as official creative fashion director. Bloch will help launch the league's fall women's wear line in September, which is when Fashion Week gets underway and football season kicks off, too. No doubt New Yorkers will have gridiron on the brain this fall, as we wait for Super Bowl XLVIII on our home turf in February.
SELENA'S PARTYING LIKE IT'S 21
Selena Gomez turned 21 on Monday, but started celebrating Saturday night with pal Lily Collins at Julianne Hough's 25th birthday party at L.A.'s Cicada Club. Our insider says Gomez (above) and Collins left Nina Dobrev, Ashley Greene and Chord Overstreet partying at that 1920s-themed bash and headed to Beacher's Madhouse Theater, where they danced up an appetite, then ate a leopard-decorated birthday cake. The party girls left together around 2 a.m.
YOU CAN BUY INTO SPIKE'S NEW SCENE
Spike Lee wants you to do the right thing - and give him money! The director (above) has launched an obnoxious online campaign on Kickstarter asking civilians to help fund his next film. Lee is asking donors for $1.25 million over the next month, but offered few details about the project. The lucky rich person who donates $10,000 will get a trip with Lee to watch his beloved Knicks play from the director's pricey courtside seats.
IT'S BETTER IN BAHAMAS
Will filming for Judd Apatow's "The Other Woman" ever end? Or will we just be staring at photos of Sports Illustrated beauty Kate Upton's (above r.) enviable cleavage the rest of our lives? Apatow's leading ladies - Upton, Cameron Diaz (r.) and Apatow's wife, Leslie Mann - laughed and wore hats in the crystalline waters of the Bahamas on a rare day off from shooting, which has already taken place in New York City and the Hamptons.
BLUNT & CRUISE GO COMIC-AL
"Edge of Tomorrow" co-stars Emily Blunt, 30, -and Tom Cruise, 51, palled around at Comic-Con in San Diego last weekend to promote their upcoming sci-fi flick, directed by Doug Liman. Blunt wore a pretty pink and purple Wes Gordon dress, and Cruise reminded everyone what a charmer he can be when the Church of Scientology isn't around. We hope the oft-grumpy Suri is taking notes!
