GEORGE Zimmerman, the man whose not-guilty murder verdict sparked racially charged protests across the US, last week helped rescue a family from a horrific car wreck less than a mile from where he shot Trayvon Martin dead. 
Mr Zimmerman pulled Dana and Mark Gerstle (pictured left) and their two children from their upturned SUV last Wednesday after frantic 911 calls following the incident on a stretch of Florida highway just yards from the Seminole gated community where the Neighbourhood Watch captain shot the 17-year-old black teen in February, 2012.
Mr Zimmerman, acquitted of all counts against him on July 13, has been in hiding since the controversial finding that has ignited America.
Father of two Mr Gerstle, 52, was driving on to the off-ramp of the highway when he lost control of the vehicle. The crash left him, his wife and children aged eight and four trapped.
Neither he nor his 41-year-old wife chose to comment on their brush with Mr Zimmerman, who did not witness the accident occur but was on the scene shortly afterwards.
Though he spoke with his lawyers on Friday he did not make any mention of the rescue.
Shawn Vincent, a spokesman for Mr Zimmerman's attorney Mark O'Mara said: ``We spoke with George on Friday and he made no mention of this at all. That's very typical of George. He has a history of getting involved. It's just the way he is.
``There has already been the backlash of people saying this is some sort of PR stunt but it isn't. We've had it confirmed by the sheriff.''
Sanford Police Department Captain Jim McAuliffe said Mr Zimmerman was identified by one of the crash victims as the man who pulled him and his family from the mangled blue Ford Explorer.
The responding deputy said that when he arrived at the crash scene two men -- one of them Mr Zimmerman -- had freed the Gerstle family from their overturned vehicle. No one was hurt.
Mr Zimmerman left after telling the deputy what had happened.
Asked if Mr Zimmerman was being called a hero, Sheriff's Department spokeswoman Kim Cannaday said: ``We're not going that far.''
Mr Zimmerman, his family and his lawyers have received numerous death threats. Over the weekend celebrities including Beyonce and Jay Z joined rallies to press for federal civil rights charges against Mr Zimmerman.
