student loans >> Why doesn't the government loan college students money at the same rate it loans money to the big banks, at one half of one percent? 
gov. martinez >> The Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) named Governor Susana Martinez one of the worst governors in America. That is not news to us NewMexicans.gov . martinez >> It strikes me as more than a little strange that our governor's new number-one priority, her "biggest push" is for the dead. Really, dead New Mexicans, some of whom I love, have fewer problems than the rest of us.
spaceport >> It looks like New Mexico taxpayers have been snookered again by the Martinez administration. We will be liable for a $21 million private loan for two unnecessary Spaceport America visitors' centers. When will this foolishness stop?sun-news >> The new format for the LC Sun-News is harder for me to read. The font size is too small. I find myself skipping sections I'd prefer to read, but it's too much of a hassle.
sun-news >> You changed the format, etc, to save paper, not to provide more news or benefits to your readers. Although you may have added news items I found that I am reading less of the paper due to the difficulty of reading it, primarily due to the too small print size but also due to page layouts.
hooks column >> For most, sexual identity seems to be what it is, so it is hard to relate to Neal Hooks' fear that a change in state licensing would be the tipping point for a change to a lifestyle he finds repugnant. Really, when sexual desire crosses my mind, the state of New Mexico government doesn't.hooks column >> I have an alcoholic uncle in Las Vegas who is on his fifth wife and a lesbian couple down the street raising special-needs kids. Guess which pair Neal Hooks calls hedonists?eric holder >> Typical Eric Holder. Bait and switch. Got a standing ovation at the NAACP for talking about "stand your ground" laws, which was never used in the Zimmerman trial. Zimmerman was acquitted strictly on old fashioned self defense.zimmerman trial >> The blatant racism of those who say they want justice for TrayvonMartin is so saddening. Why aren't they concerned about the 12, yes, 12, look it up, black men who were killed in Chicago in just the last week? Because those were all killed by other black men. Why aren't there marches in 100 cities for that?zimmerman trial >> If Zimmerman was African-American and TrayvonMartin was white, he would be serving life in prison. Anyone who believes a black man can get fair treatment in the southern white conservative community does not remember the travesty of the election in 2012, particularly in Florida.be heard >> Call 575-541-5466 or emailsoundoff@lcsun-news.com to submit a Sound Off! item.
