Writer-director Ryan Coogler's impactful Fruitvale Station - a dramatic re-enactment of the final day in the life of a young black man killed by a white transit cop in Oakland, Calif. - opens at a time when issues about justice and race in America are front of mind.
Like Trayvon Martin, 22-year-old Oscar Grant III was unarmed when he was shot on New Year's Day 2009, his death forming the narrative framework for Coogler's film, which was greeted with major prizes at Sundance and Cannes ahead of its July 26 opening in Toronto. 
First-time filmmaker Coogler gives Fruitvale Station a sense of documentary-like immediacy and a frightening jolt of reality with the first scene, which is filmed not by him, but the witnesses to Grant's death early on New Year's Day 2009.
It's hard to know what we are watching at first with the tilting, jumpy cellphone footage taken by passengers in the Oakland station that gives the film its title. A handful of black men are seated on the floor, their backs to a low wall. Minutes before, police had ordered them off a subway train.
The crowd hoots. The men sitting at the officers' feet are frustrated and edgy. People on the train call out to the cops to leave them alone. Suddenly, Grant is face-down on the station floor. There's a sharp pop, the sound of the bullet to his back and an anguished cry from a witness.
Coogler, who also wrote the script, immediately pulls the audience away from the station and into Oscar's life for a dramatic recreation that mostly follows his final 24 hours.
Michael B. Jordan (The Wire and Friday Night Lights) plays Oscar with the heart and compelling charm required to make us feel close to him. It's a natural performance that feels effortless as he presents a man unknowingly living his final day.
Like many of us, Oscar wakes on New Year's Eve with a sense of purpose, anxious to make some changes to his life. A doting father to 4-year-old T (Ariana Neal) he is determined to repair the rifts he's caused in his relationship with girlfriend Sophina (a wonderful Melonie Diaz of Lords of Dogtown).
He's trying his best to be a better man, but he's done some prison time and his quick temper and lack of reliability has already cost him his job - something he hasn't shared with Sophina. He's devoted to his mother, Wanda (The Help's Octavia Spencer) even if he can't help disappointing her.
It's not that he lacks support; Oscar is awash in family love and care. He spends the last day of his life running errands for his mother's birthday dinner, teasing his sister and helping a stranger.
He's messed up before, but this time will be right, even as conflicts arise.
And the thing about Oscar, he's always regretful and ashamed after he lets people down.
In other words, it's an ordinary life and while the inevitable end of it is always close by Jordan's approach adds an undercurrent of inescapable sadness rather than foreboding.
But this presentation of Oscar often skews too much toward the ideal.
An encounter with a stray dog that acts as a warning and a snap decision about a drug deal begins to strain believability. Can someone who has had so much trouble in his life really be so selfless?
Urged by his mother to take a safer way to the city than driving to mark the New Year, Oscar and his friends take the train. The post-midnight trip home leads to the altercation set off by a meeting that's a little too much of a coincidence, ending with Oscar on the platform. Canadian actor Kevin Durand plays the edgy transit cop who fires the bullet. Coogler, himself from Oakland and roughly Oscar's age when the shocking story of his death was in the local news, brings personal intimacy to Fruitvale Station.
But are we reacting to the horrors of the shooting of an unarmed young man or to the quality of the film made about him?
Fruitvale Station
(out of 4)
Starring Michael B. Jordan, Melonie Diaz and Octavia Spencer. Directed by Ryan Coogler. 95 minutes. Opening July 25 at the Varsity. 14A
