9 P.M. (13) DANCING AT JACOB'S PILLOW: NEVER STAND STILL Bill T. Jones narrates this history of Jacob's Pillow, the dance center founded in the 1930s by the choreographer Ted Shawn on a farm in the Berkshires in western Massachusetts, and its storied annual festival. The film's director, Ron Honsa, intersperses performances by the likes of Chunky Move, Shantala Shivalingappa, and, above, Kellye Saunders with interviews with Suzanne Farrell, Bill Irwin, Rasta Thomas, Frederic Franklin, Mark Morris, Merce Cunningham, Paul Taylor, Judith Jamison and Nikolaj Hubbe. ''The dances themselves are entertaining, and the cameras occasionally catch that electrifying moment just before a performer heads onstage,'' David DeWitt wrote in The New York Times about this film, now a ''Great Performances'' presentation. ''The rehearsals let the viewers play spy.'' Still, he said, ''this film has the everyday vibe of a bunch of friends putting together a summer camp video. Gosh, the substance of Jacob's Pillow should be a little less sleepy.''
8 A.M. (Fox News) FOX & FRIENDS Bret Michaels performs on the ''All-American Summer Concert Series.'' 
1 P.M. (FX Movie Channel) BOY ON A DOLPHIN (1957) Phaedra (Sophia Loren, in her English-language debut), a sponge diver, and her boyfriend, Rhif (Jorge Mistral), discover a gold-and-bronze statue thought to have mystical powers on a sunken vessel off the island of Hydra and try to sell it against the Greek government's wishes, in this adaptation from Jean Negulesco of the novel by David Divine. Alan Ladd plays the American archaeologist who wants the couple to donate the sculpture to a museum; Clifton Webb is the aesthete who covets it -- and Phaedra -- for himself. ''The outcome of this benign struggle is clear almost from the start,'' A. H. Weiler wrote in The Times. ''Jean Negulesco, who also was responsible for 'Three Coins,' and the rest of his troupe, did not waste color film. The trip paid off in fine, unusual, exotic and beautiful footage for this first American company to shoot in Greece.'' Ms. Loren, he added, appeared ''as decorative as any classic statue.''
8 P.M. (CBS) ACM PRESENTS: TIM McGRAW'S SUPERSTAR SUMMER NIGHT Mr. McGraw, a 15-time Academy of Country Music Award winner, performs with John Fogerty, Faith Hill, Florida Georgia Line, Nelly, the Band Perry, Jason Aldean, Dierks Bentley, Luke Bryan, Taylor Swift, Keith Urban, Ne-Yo, Pitbull and Lady Antebellum in a repeat of this concert special, taped on April 8 at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas.
8 P.M. (TCM) FRIDAY NIGHT SPOTLIGHT: THE FILMS OF FRANOIS TRUFFAUT The final installment in a monthlong tribute to this film critic turned director and mainstay of the French New Wave begins with ''Day For Night'' (1973), in which Truffaut portrays a film director struggling to complete a movie while coping with various crises among his cast members (including actors played by Jacqueline Bisset and Jean-Pierre Laud, right) and crew. The lineup continues with ''The Last Metro'' (1980), at 10, about a beautiful actress (Catherine Deneuve) who hides her Jewish husband (Heinz Bennent) in the theater they run during the Nazi occupation while falling in love with an actor (Grard Depardieu) performing onstage; ''The Wild Child (1970), at 12:15 a.m., in which a doctor (Truffaut) tries to civilize a boy (Jean-Pierre Cargol) raised in the wilderness by wolves; and ''The Story of Adle H.'' (1975), at 1:45, starring Isabelle Adjani as Victor Hugo's love-mad daughter.
8 P.M. (Fuse) FUSE NEWS SPECIAL: THE BALLAD OF TRAYVON MARTIN The anchors Matte Babel and Alexa Chung discuss the case with the musicians Wyclef Jean, Fat Joe, Raekwon, Lester Chambers, M1 from Dead Prez and others. Mr. Jean also performs.
9 P.M. (ABC) WOULD YOU FALL FOR THAT? From the creators of ''What Would You Do?'' comes this social experiment in which unsuspecting passers-by are persuaded to take part in humorous stunts -- like trying to attract the attention of a stuffed bird in a tree -- featuring the comedians Scott Rogowsky and Sasheer Zamata. Nick Watt, an ABC News correspondent, hosts.
10 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER Sarah Slamen, a women's rights advocate who testified against an anti-abortion bill in the Texas State Senate this month, and Jim Wallis, the founder of Sojourners, a Christian community in Washington, and a spiritual adviser to President Obama, are the interview guests. Reza Aslan, a writer and religious scholar; Bob Ney, a former Republican congressman from Ohio; and Eliot Spitzer, the former governor who is campaigning for city comptroller in New York, are seated at the round table. KATHRYN SHATTUCK
