At what point does security become insecurity? On the sliding scale of personal liberty and external protection, how much of a price are we willing to pay for safety?
In a post-September 11 world full of suspicion and mistrust, from government communication monitoring to dashboard cameras, there seems no simple answer to these questions. And Wickfield Wonderland shows - with a healthy dose of black humour - just what can happen when societal paranoia is taken to the extreme.
Commissioned by the Canberra Youth Theatre Company, award- winning playwright Angela Betzien presents the setting of a gated community that is under 24-hour CCTV surveillance, with motion sensors and a permanent guard at the front gate. The result, according to director Karla Conway, is a too- perfect slice of suburbia. 
"It explores the idea of the nanny state that's gone a bit out of control, and this idea that Australia is fast becoming the biggest nanny state in the world," Conway said. "We legislate everything for the safety of the people, and the issue with bubble-wrapping everybody in society is that you take away the element of risk and danger." By insulating its children from the outside world as much as possible, the community in Wickfield Wonderland inadvertently creates its own set of problems.
"These kids have been raised in a completely safe, danger-free, risk- free environment," Conway said.
"Now that they're in their early teens, these games they play - things like spotlight and hide-and- seek - they start to become a little bit more sinister as their instinct or curiosity kicks in." A young woman who has scaled the walls and sought refuge in the community soon becomes the subject of the twisted games the community's young people play.
"They start to stalk her as a game, and they have her tied up in a drain. Before long, the game has gone completely out of control," Conway said.
While the themes may sound bleak and potentially disturbing, Conway said the heavily monitored dystopia of Wickfield is presented in a satirical manner.
"It's a very tongue-in-cheek, very black comedy," she said. "So rather than trying to make it this really dark serious conversation about the nanny state, I think it brings the darkness out in the lightness of their gameplay." Conway said Wickfield Wonderland was inspired by a succession of current events and trends, including the prevalent use of CCTV cameras in public areas, and the increased use of fences to "[lock] kids in schools like prisons".
"There was a case in the UK in 2009 where the government instituted rules for people on welfare who were not parenting to a level that the government deemed acceptable," Conway said. "So they had CCTV cameras installed in their homes, and people within the government department could basically turn on at anytime of the day to ensure that kids were being appropriately cared for, fed, going to bed at a particular time, doing their homework, and their welfare payments were dependent on their passing these particular rules." While supposedly contributing to society's wellbeing, safety measures such as surveillance and fencing could simply fuel paranoia - and potentially bring about tragic consequences, as in the case of Trayvon Martin's fatal shooting in a Florida gated community last year.
"It creates an immediate us and them," Conway said.
"It continues to serve the fear and the xenophobia within a society, just by the nature of putting a gate up."
