Dist. 214 taps administrators:
The District 214 school board recently made four appointments. Kate Kraft, associate principal for operations at Wheeling High School, has been appointed director of Vanguard School; Angela M. Ginnan, dean of students at Stevenson High School in Lincolnshire, is the new associate principal for operations at Wheeling High School; Robert Murphy, business education teacher at John Hersey High School, is now the assistant principal for student activities at Elk Grove High School; and Jeffrey Bott, technology education teacher at Wheeling High School, is the division head for Career Technical Education at Buffalo Grove High School. All appointments are effective immediately. 
Rolling Meadows cleanup:
Rolling Meadows residents should set out storm damage brush as soon as possible this week, and no later than 6 p.m. Monday, July 29, for city pickup. The city's brush chippers will be collecting brush occasionally throughout this week and will make their final pass through all streets Monday. After the deadline, brush must be disposed of according to the city's normal yard waste collection procedures. The city's public works department can be reached at (847) 963-0500.
Watch 'Little Shop of Horrors':
Big Deal Productions, the theater program of the Buffalo Grove Park District, is presenting "Little Shop of Horrors" in the West Auditorium at Stevenson High School at 7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday, July 26 and 27, and 2 p.m. Sunday, July 28. Tickets are $16 in advance or $19 at the door. The show is directed and choreographed by Karen Shuman-Lysen, and the music is directed by Dan Ermel. For more information, contact Lindsay Grandt at lindsay@bgparks.org or (847) 850-2132.
Dancers in Barrington:
Dancers from all over the U.S. and Canada have to come to Barrington once again for the Dancewerks National Werkshop, directed by resident Ellen Werksman. The students will perform at the village of Barrington's Cruise Night at 6:30 p.m. today on South Cook Street in the heart of the village's downtown. Dancers will take the stage and entertain audience members to "Jailhouse Rock." More than 150 dancers and their families are in Barrington this week to study at the elite dance workshop where they're training with master teachers from New York as well as Chicago legend Gus Giordano. Barrington's Cruise Nights are held every Thursday evening throughout the summer.
Occupy Elgin plans protest:
In the wake of the Trayvon Martin verdict, the group Occupy Elgin is planning a protest on Saturday calling for repeal of stand-your-ground self-defense laws across the nation. The protest will take place at 1 p.m. at the corner of Grove Avenue and Kimball Street, across from Gail Borden Public Library in Elgin, organizers said in a news release. There will be an informal "speak out" at 2 p.m. during which people from the community can take turns speaking about their reaction to Zimmerman verdict. Organizers didn't immediately return calls for comment Wednesday. A Florida jury found George Zimmerman not guilty of murder and manslaughter charges after he shot and killed Martin in February 2012. Florida adopted its stand-your-ground law in 2005; among other things, the law eliminated the duty to retreat before using deadly force.
