Young drinkers a big problem 
In reading the latest penalties being dealt to the Main Street Bar and Grill, I continue to be amazed at the lack of understanding the local liquor commissions display regarding the underage patrons issue. 
Having owned and operated bar and restaurant operations in Bloomington and Normal for more than 10 years, I am extremely aware of the efforts made to keep underage drinkers out of these establishments. No bar owner wants to risk his business operations by violating the underage drinking laws. 
I have known Jim Jordan since his tenure on the Normal police force and have respect for his experience, but he, like other commissioners, has been a salaried employee and has no concept of trying to be an independent businessman. 
These sanctions and fines are severe enough to cause economic hardship to the employees, owners and families that rely on that business. I challenge any commissioner to spend Friday or Saturday night checking IDs at any of the more popular spots in Bloomington or Normal from 9 p.m. to midnight. At midnight, have a show of hands (with immunity) of those under 21. At least 10 percent is my prediction.  
Michael 'Rudy' Rudicil 
Bloomington 
Gov't. steals from our pocketbooks 
Concerned citizens in my neighborhood are organizing a Neighborhood Watch, primarily because there were two thefts recently in our area. I think it is great for people in a neighborhood getting together to meet each other as I like to see more community bonding. 
Some of the literature showed 28 burglaries during the third quarter of 2012 in Normal that on average had a loss of about $1,200 worth of goods. 
This made me think about how expensive the Twin City governments are getting. Over the past 20 years, our two cities have increased their taxes, fees, levies, etc., by more than $4,000 per family after adjusting for inflation and population growth. 
Thus, in Normal, and it's about the same for Bloomington, all 17,000 households are paying their local government more than $4,000 each, which is considerably more than $1,200 for each of 28 households. The money would be understandable, but not OK, if our governments provided more services, but they don't. 
I think we need a city watch more than a neighborhood watch.  
Victor Connor 
Normal 
Soccer complex needs sponsors 
In the real world, a business does not claim to turn a profit if it can't afford to pay for the building that it is in. 
In the case of U.S. Cellular Coliseum, a "$176,800 operating profit" minus the "2013 bond payment of about $1.3 million for the building" equals a LOSS of $1,123,200. 
Any other business would go out of business if it lost $1.12 million in a year, but the public is propping this one up. The only record that it might have set last year is for the "lowest amount of public funds lost" since being built. 
Now people want to apply this same math to a soccer complex that, even if incredibly successful, would not be able to generate a fraction of the "operating profit" that the Coliseum has managed to bring in. The math just doesn't add up, especially when you take into account our dilapidated roadways and massive pension liabilities. 
If they want to build the soccer complex, it is time for the developers/supporters to start looking for sponsorships. 
David Douglas 
Bloomington 
Quinn should sign marijuana bill 
I call on Gov. Quinn to sign the medical marijuana bill that was passed by the Illinois House and Senate and that now sits on his desk. 
It's the right thing to do. 
Gregg Brown 
Bloomington 
Pension mess is a Ponzi scheme 
The state is about to pull off the largest Ponzi scheme in Illinois history. Over the past 40-plus years, taxes have been collected, money deducted, for the purpose of funding state pensions. Our elected officials have diverted one way or another much of that money. 
To rub salt in our wounds, the legislatures have omitted judges from the pension overhaul plan. Judges should step up to the plate and take one for the team. We are all state retirees/employees. Some state departments (employees) cannot strike by contract or by law. 
Those pensions were negotiated in good faith, were promised and earned. We did not hold them hostage. State retirees/employees are not the bad guys. The only thing we did wrong was believe our elected officials over the past 40 years when they said they would catch up the pension funds. 
We as voters need to look at all gubernatorial candidates that have held public office. We need to know how they voted on pension funding throughout their careers. If they voted just once against pension funding, then they have pension blood on their hands. 
I would hope the news media would investigate and report which candidates have pension blood on their hands, placing the state in this fiscal mess. 
Steve Endres 
Fairbury 
Nothing good comes from being vigilante 
Sometime last year, coming from a root canal and still mentally fuzzy, I parked my pickup in a parking lot for some shopping. A typically windy day - the truck door jerked out of my hand and hit the car next to me. I checked, and seeing neither a dent nor any other damage, I walked away. 
I finished shopping, returned to my truck. A vigilante had written a note that he left under the windshield wiper; he had seen my truck door hit the other car - and acted on it. The vigilante's note chastised me; he wrote that he had punished me in a way that I would notice. He had taken away the towing ball on the back bumper. 
I write this letter in reference to vigilantes. Some people feel a responsibility to keep other people in check - even to punish someone they see doing wrong. They become judge, jury and executioner. Others who see wrongs act differently. It is, I believe, the difference between vigilantes and followers of Jesus. 
In Florida, a person is dead. In my case, some vandalism was the only result. If these judgmental vigilantes had seen the offender not as evil, but as needy, as fellow human beings, as brothers, the outcome could have been different. 
Taking responsibility when you see a wrong done by others is good, but if your response is violent, vindictive - and it inflicts harm, that is as wrong as, or worse - than the original. 
Joris Heise 
Waynesville 
TrayvonMartin not saint or hero 
The media is making something complicated out of something simple in the Zimmerman-Martin case. The media portrays Martin as a child whose ONLY wish was just to get home. His home was in Miami. 
It seems as though he was going to his father's house or to his father's girlfriend's house. Anyway, his destination was only about 100 yards away, and he could run that in about 20 seconds. 
Instead, he chose to turn around and start stalking George, thus making him the aggressor. He then accosted George by punching him in the face, giving him two black eyes and a broken nose. Then he threw George on the ground and banged his head on the concrete sidewalk. He told George, "You're gonna die tonight." George drew his legally concealed gun and fired. Unfortunately for Trayvon's parents, the wound was fatal. 
Trayvon wasn't a saint or a hero. This was a simple clear-cut case of self-defense! Wake up and face reality, folks. 
Bob Wick 
Normal 
