But the man who shot Trayvon still has to face God, says a juror
MIAMI: The only non-white juror on the six-woman panel that acquitted US neighbourhood watchman George Zimmerman in the killing of unarmed black teenager TrayvonMartin says he ``got away with murder''. 
But in a Good Morning America interview, to air on US network ABC today, the Puerto Rican said she could not find Mr Zimmerman guilty of murder under the law. ``You can't put the man in jail even though in our hearts we felt he was guilty,'' she said. ``We had to grab our hearts and put it aside and look at the evidence.''
The 36-year-old, identified as Juror B-29 during the trial and as Maddy in the interview, was selected for the trial five months after moving from Chicago. She said that after the controversial verdict she felt she owed an apology to the parents of Trayvon, who was shot dead in a gated community in Sanford, Florida, after buying lollies and iced tea.
``I felt like I let a lot of people down, and I'm thinking to myself, `Did I go the right way?' '' she said.
But she stressed that, based on the instructions the jury got from judge Deborah Nelson, she felt she couldn't convict. ``I was the juror that was going to give them the hung jury. I fought to the end,'' she said. ``But as the law was read to me, if you have no proof that he killed him intentionally, you can't say he's guilty.''
Mr Zimmerman admitted to shooting Trayvon, but insisted it was in self-defence after the teen wrestled him to the ground and pounded his head on the footpath. He had been following Trayvon on suspicion that the teen was involved in robberies.
``George Zimmerman got away with murder, but you can't get away from God. And, at the end of the day, he's going to have a lot of questions and answers he has to deal with,'' Maddy said.
An initial decision by Florida investigators not to press charges set off widespread protests, with Trayvon's supporters alleging racism, saying the teen was unarmed and had no criminal record.
