Cal Thomas is a conservative columnist. Bob Beckel is a liberal Democratic strategist. But as longtime friends, they can often find common ground on issues that lawmakers in Washington cannot.
Today: Zimmerman verdict
BOB: Whether you agree with the verdict in the Zimmerman/Martin trial, or not, it's over. The emotions it unleashed in the black community, however, are far from over. Last weekend in hundreds of demonstrations across the country, blacks rose up to denounce the verdict. Some demonstrations were violent, but most were not. What this trial has launched is another debate about race, again raising familiar issues that continue to be ignored.
CAL: America doesn't do trials by mob. We have a jury system. President Obama acknowledged the trial was fair. The prosecution couldn't prove its thin case. Investigators said race was never an issue, but it became one thanks to the "usual suspects" who make money, gain political power and appear on TV by keeping us divided. 
BOB: President Obama's statement on race was excellent. He explained why there is unrest in the black community, despite the fact that many blacks like Bill Cosby accepted the verdict. What the president was trying to tell whites and other races is that despite enormous advances in civil rights, an undercurrent of racism still leads to the targeting of too many black men.
CAL: I agree with Cosby that the trial wasn't about race, and I agree with the president that there has been great progress in civil rights. That progress and showcasing people who have overcome challenges ought to serve as "you can do it" examples, rather than constantly focusing on "racism," which can be used as an excuse for failure rather than an obstacle that can be overcome.
BOB: As you know, Cal, my dad was deeply involved in the civil rights movement in the 1950s and '60s. He marched with Dr. Martin Luther King and was jailed in the South many times.
CAL: I know you followed in your father's footsteps.
BOB: I did. I was involved in black voter registration drives in the 1970s and experienced firsthand the level of violence and racism that still existed in the South. Racism was also entrenched in many northern neighborhoods. Race relations have come a long way, but those who believe racism is behind us are living an illusion.
CAL: We're focusing on the wrong thing, Bob. The problems in the black community aren't mainly caused by racism. The out-of-wedlock birth rate among black women, for example, is two-and-a-half times higher among 15- to 19-year-olds than non-Hispanic whites, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Black babies are aborted at a higher rate than any other group, further cheapening African-American life. The president is a champion of "abortion rights" but says nothing about the carnage in his own community. Democratic politicians won't agree to school choice to allow poor black children to escape failed schools. I could go on.
BOB: Few whites have experienced the disgraceful profiling of blacks that exists to this day, especially among police and wannabe cops such as George Zimmerman. The anger in the black community was less about an awful verdict and Florida's barbaric "stand your ground" law than it was about the indiscriminate stopping and searching of blacks by police without cause, and subtle things like locking car doors when a black man crosses a street, or following black shoppers. There are many more examples.
CAL: I grant all of that and have seen it myself, but the media play a role in promoting negative images of African Americans. The evil "gangsta rap" culture that disrespects women and clothing that shouts "I'm dangerous" don't help build bridges between races.
BOB: Blacks and whites for the most part have not integrated. They tend to cluster in their own communities, attend their own churches and stay close to their neighborhoods. I confess that we liberals, with the best intentions, inadvertently contributed to this clustering in the black community.
CAL: I sense a long overdue mea culpa coming.
BOB: Perhaps. Two examples. We built public housing projects that provided low-rent homes predominantly to minorities. These projects contributed to the isolation of blacks in subpar housing that most whites would not rent while many blacks had no other option. Many of these projects became infested with crime and drugs. Busing students miles out of their communities to attend school was also a failure and further contributed to racial animosity.
CAL: We must start reading from another script, Bob. We need to hear and see more inspirational stories of African Americans who have overcome difficult circumstances. In recent months, many have become aware of Dr. Ben Carson, who rose from inner city Detroit and a poor and dangerous neighborhood to great success as chief pediatric neurosurgeon at Johns Hopkins University hospital. He didn't spend his time singing We Shall Overcome -- he overcame. More stories like his -- and they're out there -- might inspire more young African Americans to follow his example.
BOB: There has been progress in race relations, but there is hidden racism that blacks experience and whites don't understand. That's what propelled last weekend's protests as much as the killing of Trayvon Martin.
CAL: I agree about "hidden racism," as you call it, but while it will never be completely erased, its power can be diminished. Most Americans want to see other Americans succeed, regardless of race. Along with the president, I applaud the progress that has been made. The path to even greater progress is to stop using race as an excuse for failure and start embracing the rules that can improve any life. 
