The lone minority member of the jury that acquitted George Zimmerman says Zimmerman "got away with murder" in the killing of teenager TrayvonMartin.
In an interview with ABC News that aired Thursday evening, the woman identified as Juror B-29 said she feels she owes an apology to Trayvon's parents over the verdict that touched off protest demonstrations around the country. 
The juror said the six-member, all-female jury followed Florida law and found the evidence did not warrant a murder conviction.
"You can't put the man in jail even though in our hearts we felt he was guilty," said the juror.
She declined to be identified by her full name and was referred to in the interview as "Maddy." She allowed her face to be shown in the interviews airing on World News With Diane Sawyer and today on Good Morning America.
Zimmerman, who did not testify in his own defense, contended he shot and killed Trayvon in  self-defense during a confrontation in a neighborhood of Sanford, Fla., on Feb. 26, 2012.
The identities of the jurors were sealed by the Florida court and have not yet been made public. ABC News said she did not allow her full name to be used out of concern for her safety.
She was described as a 36-year-old nursing assistant and mother of eight children. A Puerto Rican, she had moved to Seminole County, Fla., from Chicago only five months before her selection to the jury.
She is the second of the six jurors to speak publicly since the verdict.
Zimmerman, 29, is Hispanic and Trayvon, 17, was black. The case was racially charged from the outset, and prosecutors alleged Zimmerman "profiled" the teen.
Maddy said the case was not about race as far as she was concerned.
"George Zimmerman got away with murder, but you can't get away from God. And at the end of the day, he's going to have a lot of questions and answers he has to deal with," Maddy said. But, she added, "the law couldn't prove it."
Maddy said she favored convicting Zimmerman of second-degree murder when the jury began its deliberations. "I was the juror that was going to give them the hung jury. I fought to the end," she said.
After nine hours of discussion, Maddy said, she concluded there wasn't enough proof to convict.
Trayvon's mother, Sybrina Fulton, issued a statement Thursday night saying that she found the juror's remarks painful but true.
"It is devastating for my family to hear the comments from juror B-29, comments which we already knew in our hearts to be true: That George Zimmerman literally got away with murder," Fulton said. 
