Trains collide in Switzerland:
BERLIN -- At least 35 people were injured, five of them seriously, in a head-on collision of two trains in western Switzerland late Monday, police said. One person had yet to be recovered from the wreckage. Photos showed the two regional trains locked together, partly lifted off the tracks.
Tunisia's leader won't resign: 
TUNIS, Tunisia -- Tunisia's prime minister rejected demands his government step down and vowed Monday to complete the democratic transition with a new constitution by August and elections in December. The assassination of two opposition legislators over the last six months has plunged Tunisia into a crisis.
Jewelry heist at $136 million:
PARIS -- Wearing a scarf to mask his face, the gunman held up at least three security guards and fled the Cannes hotel roughly a minute later with $136 million in diamond jewelry, more than twice the initial estimated worth of the loot. The theft is the biggest jewelry heist in years.
Syria troops capture key area:
DAMASCUS, Syria -- Syria's beleaguered opposition forces suffered another blow Monday when government troops captured a key district in the embattled city of Homs that has been a rebel stronghold since the beginning of the country's uprising.
Obama, Hillary Clinton meet:
WASHINGTON -- A summertime meal shared by President Barack Obama and his rival-turned-ally, Hillary Clinton, threw the political speculation machine into overdrive Monday, highlighting how closely both are being watched for their intentions in the next presidential race.
Tires blow in O'Hare landing:
CHICAGO -- Two tires of an American Airlines jet popped when the aircraft landed at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. American said no one none was injured when the two left main tires blew on the jet that landed at 12:30 p.m. Monday.
Hawaii on storm warning:
HONOLULU -- A tropical storm making its way toward Hawaii had residents of Maui and the Big Island on Monday bracing for possible flooding, 60 mph wind gusts and waves that could reach as high as 18 feet. Tropical Storm Flossie could also bring mudslides, tornadoes and waterspouts.
Martin's mother seeks repeal:
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. -- The mother of slain Florida teenager Trayvon Martin joined a prominent African-American lawyers organization in vowing Monday to keep the pressure on legislators to repeal or overhaul "stand your ground" self-defense laws. Florida Gov. Rick Scott has rejected calls for a special legislative session.
Sex raids rescue 105 children:
WASHINGTON -- The FBI said Monday that authorities had rescued 105 young people and arrested 150 alleged pimps in a three-day sweep in 76 cities, including Chicago and its suburbs. The agency said it had been monitoring Backpage.com and other websites as a prominent online marketplace for sex for sale.
William Scranton dies at 96:
HARRISBURG, Pa. -- William Warren Scranton, a former Pennsylvania governor, presidential candidate and ambassador to the U.N., has died. He was 96. A Republican from the Pennsylvania city named after his wealthy family, he was elected to Congress in 1960 and as governor in 1962. He ran for president in 1964.
Arrest in D.C. vandalism:
WASHINGTON -- A woman was arrested Monday after green paint was found splattered inside two chapels at the Washington National Cathedral, and police were investigating her in connection with two similar incidents on the National Mall, authorities said. Tian Jiamel, 58, was arrested inside the cathedral shortly after the paint was found.
Pentagon to cut furlough days?
WASHINGTON -- Defense department civilians will likely face up to five fewer unpaid furlough days than originally planned, as Pentagon leaders scrimp to find up to $900 million in savings in the final months of the budget year that ends Sept. 30, officials said.
Sex raids rescue 105 children:
WASHINGTON -- The FBI said Monday that authorities had rescued 105 young people and arrested 150 alleged pimps in a three-day sweep in 76 cities, including Chicago and its suburbs. The agency said it had been monitoring Backpage.com and other websites as a prominent online marketplace for sex for sale.
