It is time for good people to stand up and get involved. To quote Rev. John Guns, pastor of St. Paul Missionary Baptist Church, we need to "build bridges and break barriers."
Guns is doing his part by leading a nationwide campaign called "Save Our Sons."
His approach is to take positive action within the African-American community in the spirit of reconciliation and forgiveness, not anger. For instance, he will be holding a seminar in September to help fathers be better fathers. But he can't do it alone. 
Can congregations of different races meet to talk respectfully and openly about important issues? Can members have dinner together?
Guns' church across from Ribault High School was the site of a forum Saturday evening, July 20, to discuss some of the issues surrounding the Trayvon Martin-George Zimmerman case.
Guns said America is too often "painfully polarized."
"We have to change how we see each other," Guns said.
The discussion, moderated by the Rev. John Newman, senior pastor at the Sanctuary at Mt. Calvary, was filled with thoughtful comments.
Guns has received inquiries from dozens of cities interested in setting up their own chapters of Save Our Sons, he said.
A few of the issues raised at the discussion:
SPEAK TO YOUTH
Ken Jefferson, the former spokesman for the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office, said he tells his own son that if confronted, try to get away. Then call police.
If confronted by police, be respectful, cooperate.
The Rev. R. L. Gundy said it seems the African-American male is an endangered species. There is a feeling that the criminal justice system doesn't work for them.
Duval Superintendent Nikolai Vitti said he chose to speak to his young children about the case.
Echoing Guns' statement, he said, "We don't know each other. We don't trust each other." Are we willing to have difficult conversations?
People of good will need to leave their comfort zones and talk about issues that sometimes make them uncomfortable.
Meanwhile, there are a number of changes in the public sphere that could be made.
REFORM STAND YOUR GROUND
It may not have been the intent of the law, but it has helped produce a wave of justifiable homicides as documented by The Tampa Bay Times.
In the governor's task force report, a South Florida prosecutor, Katharine Fernandez Rundle of Miami, proposed several helpful changes in the law.
"The statute has removed all requirements of reasonableness on the part of the person who uses deadly force against someone ..." she wrote.
In her view, the law may present an "irrebuttable presumption," meaning authorities cannot even look at evidence to the contrary.
"Thus, a person who without permission, enters another's yard to ask directions, or sell something and forcefully opens a porch door, can be killed without questions being asked first.
"That person, who can be a child, may be conclusively presumed to have been there to do violence, and no evidence to the contrary can legally make a difference."
Three Jacksonville elected officials - Sen. Audrey Gibson and Reps. Reggie Fulwood and Mia Jones - have offered proposed changes:
- Eliminate the self-defense immunity if the defendant took himself to the fight when he could have stayed in a safe place instead.
- Immunity should not be available to aggressors.
- Provide less confusing instructions to juries, that justifiable use of deadly force is only allowed when a threat is imminent and when a person cannot safely avoid the danger.
- Require law enforcement to issue guidelines for neighborhood watch programs.
- Specify that immunity provisions do not restrict law enforcement agencies from investigating use-of-force cases when a person claims immunity/self-defense.
All of these suggestions appear reasonable on their face and deserve consideration by the Legislature.
EXAMINE CONCEALED CARRY
The Legislature also should analyze classes required for concealed carry permits. Are they thorough?
Florida law is fairly liberal about training courses required for concealed carry permits. For instance, it allows "any National Rifle Association firearms safety or training course."
That's too vague. The Legislature needs to take a more proactive approach regarding these and other issues involving violence in the state.
