In the month since the U.S. Supreme Court struck a key portion of the Voting Rights Act, state and federal officials and civil rights groups across the country have jumped into the legal void the ruling created.
Florida officials last week vowed to immediately restart a purge of voter rolls. In Texas, the Justice Department asked a federal court to use a part of the act left intact to require the state to obtain federal approval before redistricting or putting other voting changes in place.
Meanwhile, the NAACP and the Urban League over the past two weeks have pledged to make it an immediate priority to get Congress to update the seminal portion of the Voting Rights Act that the Supreme Court tossed out. The way to do that, leaders at the groups' conventions said, is to build a record detailing state and local changes to precinct locations, early voting times and redistricting that they believe could make it harder for blacks or Hispanics to vote. 
"We need you to be our eyes and ears," Barbara Arnwine, president of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, told more than 3,000 at the NAACP's national convention in Orlando, calling the June 25 Supreme Court decision a day of infamy. "If there's any proposed change in your jurisdiction, if you see something that looks and smells like it's discriminatory and just appears it might be, call us."
The court's 5-4 ruling threw out the part of the Voting Rights Act that determined which states and jurisdictions with a history of discrimination, including five counties in Florida, required Justice Department review before voting law changes could take effect.
The system was "based on 40-year-old facts having no logical relationship to the present day," Chief Justice John Roberts wrote in the majority opinion.
The ruling spurred states including Texas and South Carolina to move forward with newly drawn districts or voter ID requirements that had been rejected or put on hold because of the federal oversight.
In Florida, the decision caused a federal judge to dismiss a lawsuit filed by Mi Familia Vota on behalf of two Hispanic voters against a purge from voter rolls of non-citizens instituted last year by Gov. Rick Scott. The lawsuit hinged on the Voting Rights Act because federal officials had not approved the purge in five Florida counties -- Hillsborough, Hardee, Hendry, Collier and Monroe -- as the law required.
Critics, including county elections supervisors, said the purge targeted voters with Hispanic-sounding surnames.
Voter purge resumes
After the judge dismissed the lawsuit Thursday and lifted a hold on the purge, Secretary of State Ken Detzner's office said Florida would resume it.
Democratic U.S. Reps. Alcee Hastings of Miramar and Ted Deutch of Boca Raton plus state Sen. Arthenia Joyner of Tampa urged Scott to abandon the purge, which used faulty data and flagged some voters who had become naturalized citizens or who were even born in the U.S. Detzner has since gained access to a federal Homeland Security database he believes will make the list more accurate.
"Rather than move forward with a flawed voter purge and make up the law as you go along, it is time to work with leaders throughout Florida to chart out a rational, legal and accountable process for voter registration and voter roll maintenance in our state," Hastings and Deutch wrote to Scott on Thursday.
Civil and voting rights lawyers and activists consider the Voting Rights Act a powerful tool to prevent discrimination at the polls and to preserve minorities' electoral influence.
They say the federal oversight eliminated by the ruling allowed the Justice Department to block discriminatory laws and practices and helped increase minority registration and turnout. The parts of the law intact after the ruling must be settled in court -- and after potentially discriminatory practices are in effect.
Building case for law
The issue will be front-and-center at an Aug. 24 Washington march organized by the Rev. Al Sharpton commemorating the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream Speech" speech. Sharpton has a show on the liberal news network, MSNBC.
"What is under attack is not just the right of blacks to vote but the entire social justice infrastructure," the Rev. Jesse Jackson said during a voting rights panel discussion at the NAACP convention in Orlando.
Wade Henderson, president of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, compared the Supreme Court ruling to the 1896 "separate but equal" federal doctrine that justified racism.
"The Supreme Court has declared war on the African-American community," he said. "We have to show that the African-American community will not stand for this travesty."
Creating a record to document to Congress the need to re-enact the law could take months and would likely require study of legislation, policies and voters' experiences since at least 2006, when Congress reauthorized the law.
Congressional hearings on the issue began July 17, amid pressure to build a new basis for the law.
"We want to be sure that there is as complete a record as possible, in order to make sure that the best groundwork has been laid for legislation that is introduced and hopefully adopted," said Bob Kengle, co-director of the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law's Voting Rights Project, who testified before a House committee July 18. The Lawyers Committee was part of Florida's lawsuit challenging the voter purge.
Local reports will help build the case for the law, NAACP Legal Defense Fund Executive Director Elaine Jones said. While the court struck down Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act, dealing with which jurisdictions require oversight, it left intact Section 5, which gives the Justice Department authority to oversee election law changes in covered areas.
That means Congress has to re-establish the need for oversight either in those same jurisdictions or other jurisdictions before the government can use Section 5.
Section 4 is "the keys" to the law and Section 5 is "the automobile," Jones said.
"They left the automobile but they took the keys," she said. "We have to retool the lock and we've got to give it a new mechanism and we've got to give it a new tamper-free lock."
Fla. 2012 vote cited
Critics point to the 2012 election in Florida as a prime example of the need for federal oversight.
Voters in some areas, including Palm Beach County, waited in line more than eight hours to cast their ballots in 2012 after a 2011 law shortened the early voting period.
The 2011 law also did away with early voting on the Sunday before Election Day, known as "souls to the polls" because many black churchgoers cast their ballots after attending services since Florida began early voting in 2004. The 2011 law also required people who moved from one county to another to cast provisional ballots.
Miami-Dade County elections officials failed to update precincts after redistricting and voters in some precincts dominated by minorities were forced to wait in long lines because of a shortage of election equipment.
Florida lawmakers this year reversed parts of the 2011 law and gave local supervisors the choice of holding from eight to 14 days of early voting, expanding early voting sites and lengthening hours.
But because the problems were so widespread and went beyond the counties requiring Justice Department scrutiny, some want Congress to consider putting the entire state under federal review.
"We have documentation that, just in the 2012 election, how the state of Florida tried to suppress the vote," said Cynthia Slater, Florida NAACP director of civic engagement. "It was alive and it still bears witness to the effects of what's happened."
Building a congressional record to support those changes will take time. And many observers are skeptical that Congress, unable to reach consensus on other major issues, will act before next year's mid-term elections.
In the meantime, civil rights groups are using the 2012 election problems and the recent Trayvon Martin shooting case to ramp up voter registration efforts, convinced that their best hope of a new law depends on electing officials who support their cause.
"Your greatest voice is at the ballot box. I think this will raise the awareness that people need to actually get out and make their voices heard," Slater said.
dkam@pbpost.com Twitter: @TheDaraKam
