Getting worse, not better
Unfortunately, America's family social values system is gradually getting worse, not better.
Family life is inconceivable without a system of morality; a system where families are expected to embrace tradition and uphold a behavior of respect for the past and concern for the future.
According to the Machiavellian treatise, a democracy in transition eventually turns into anarchy; a lawless society where deteriorating family values lead to deviant behavior, immorality, and rising acts of crime and corruption. 
We are in the process of instituting a permissive state of society; a society where integrity, trust, self-respect and respect for others give way to offensive and unacceptable behavior.
To uproot our fundamental family values is to destroy the rule of law itself. Where the law leaves a legal vacuum, a state of anarchy will replace it.
Recent reports show that the rising numbers of one-parent families and illegitimacy are harmful to society and devastating to the individuals concerned. The costly consequences of one-parent families and illegitimacy imposed upon our society breed unacceptable issues.
The social values parents impart will determine the lifestyle children will embrace. Under these conditions, accountable and prudent parenting is crucial.
As responsible families we are expected to cultivate, not plunder, the earth, and to plan not just for ourselves but for our posterity.
Gus Sambrano, Sr. Central El Paso
Natural tendency for human beings
We are all born with a natural appetite or natural tendency, built-in aspects of what it means to be a human being. We should know truths about God and about living in society, judgments about right and wrong, which are based on the rational perception of reality.
But, next to that built aspects, we have inherited a sinful nature to restrain from expression. If human conduct in "America the Beautiful" and "A nation under God" have no truth, no goodness, beauty, nor good morality other than what the majority of nine appointed human beings happen to say is true, good, beautiful and moral, we will surely become a nation where God's divine words of salvation become a matter of choice and merely taste.
As God's adopted children, our faith and spiritual salvation has to rest not on human wisdom, but on the power of God's teachings. Many truly do not believe in God; others are afraid to get close to Him or to find a religion, because it measures our sinfulness and our evil against God.
We as Catholics and faithful Christians, should have an attitude that the world we live in needs to be safe; that we pass our days here on a temporal and perishable earth, but we are citizens of heaven. Whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord.
Jesus Manuel Valenzuela, Anthony, N.M.
Media should play fair
When is the El Paso Times and the rest of the media going to quit using a picture of Trayvon Martin when he was 12 years old? Print a picture of him as a 17-year-old. Show what he really looked like on that rainy night.
See if Obama will still claim him as his "son." Or at least run a picture of Zimmerman when he was 12 along side the picture of Obama's "son."
Glenn Wood, East El Paso
Our country is next
You asked for it!
I read today in the paper about the furloughs and the cuts in the military budget which has upset many civilian employes.
Emperor Obama last year told you that he was going to cut the military budget, so we would be a toothless tiger and a Third World nation.
He accomplished that. Look how Russia and China treat him. We lost the respect of the world.
Now he tries to impose his will in the middle East. For four years he did nothing. Now he tries to push Israel to start talks at any cost. He just wants to leave a legacy when he exits office.
Yes, what a legacy indeed! A legacy of having half the population of this great country depending on the government.
Now his Obamacare is coming unraveled. Even the Democrats are calling it a train wreck.
Because of the ACA many people are having their hours reduced below 30.
Remember what he said? I am doing it for the middle class. Guess who he is going to hurt more with all his liberal policies?
When it comes to jobs and health care, the middle-class is the one that is hurting. He did not want to cut the entitlements and motivate the people to go find a job.
Mitt Romney, on the other hand, said we need to keep our military strong to be the super power in the world.
We need to create jobs and reform entitlements.
What happened to "Do not ask what your country can do for you, but ask what you can do for your country?"
Keep voting for Democrats. See what a wonderful job they did in Detroit. They went bankrupt.
Our country is next.
Demetrios Vagalatos, Northeast El Paso
