ISTANBUL (CIHAN)- Violent and nonviolent street protests are as old as human history, and sometimes these demonstrations have been the first spark of revolutions. Even during Roman times, people were accustomed to taking to the streets to collectively express their grievances, but events as radical as the French revolution are less frequent in history.  
In brief, doing politics in the street is an old story, and people are more inclined to protest during times of political and economic crisis. In recent history, the most notable street protests happened in 1968 in the Western world and in the late 1980s in Eastern Bloc countries. These demonstrations changed the course of history. Today, we're in an environment similar to that of those two eras. The devastating economic crisis in Greece, the Trayvon Martin case in the United States, the political turmoil in Tunisia, the budget negotiations in Bulgaria, the excessive costs of the Rio Olympics in Brazil and urbanization projects in Turkey like Gezi Park encourage people to organize rallies and come together to shout their disapprobation out loud. A number of demonstrations are taking place in different countries and continents simultaneously, and this is a fact worth studying. The common denominator of these demonstrations is that they prove people's dissatisfaction with existing political mechanisms. People pour into the streets because they feel that neither governments nor opposition parties are hearing their voices. In the era of globalization, the role of worldwide communication tools is also critical. Protesters in different parts of the world hear and see each other, and even if they are protesting completely different things, they adopt similar symbols and slogans. And they encourage each other. Another common theme in today's demonstrations is the fact that they symbolize the refusal of the entire political system. Protesters insult political decision makers, they criticize governments and heads of state, but most of all they repudiate the current unfair political and economic order. Thus, they are protesting every person and institution that they believe benefits from the current state of affairs. It is undeniable that grave injustices exist within the global economic system, and there are many people who believe that existing political instruments are insufficient to deal with them. Besides, it is in the nature of democracies to constantly adapt the regime's rules and adjust them when needed through negotiation. However, even though demonstrations are part of the democratic system, they sometimes prevent democratic institutions from working properly. History shows that in many cases, street protests didn't result in more democracy and freedom. Some political groups will always try to "hijack" these demonstrations and exploit them to install an authoritarian regime. 
Another common theme of these recent demonstrations is the fact that they bring together completely different segments of society. In the past, such rallies were often organized by trade unions or the usual political cliques. Now ordinary people from all horizons who have no political affiliation at all take to the streets at every opportunity with their flags, trumpets and whistles, or put up tents in city squares and parks. That's why politicians everywhere are now looking at city squares to assess the country's current political atmosphere. Besides, governing parties are also calling on their supporters to take to the streets to prove they still enjoy the support of large crowds. In Egypt, for example, different political groups are organizing rallies in different squares simultaneously. Nevertheless, this situation of permanent demonstration is not that healthy. There is always a risk of clashes between different crowds rallying in different parts of cities. What is clear is that citizens are getting used to expressing themselves differently. So maybe it's time to modify our political structures accordingly. BERIL DEDEOGLU (Cihan/Today's Zaman) CIHAN
