Plea deal offer reported in Cleveland kidnap case
CLEVELAND - Deep plea deal discussions hinging on the death penalty were underway for a man charged with kidnapping three women, keeping them cooped up in his run-down home and raping them repeatedly for about a decade, and a court hearing was scheduled today.
Both sides in the case against former school bus driver Ariel Castro are headed back to court this morning before a judge who wants to be kept updated on the talks, defense attorney Jaye Schlachet said. 
Cleveland TV stations reported Thursday that a plea offer had been made. Schlachet declined to comment on the status of the talks but said offers and counteroffers would be expected.
"We're in the middle of plea negotiating, that's where we're at,'' he said. "Plea negotiations have been undertaken which, when there's plea offers and like any other negotiations, there's offers, there's negotiations, there's acceptance of offers, things of that sort.''
Today's hearing was a "final pretrial,'' Laura Creed, chief judicial staff attorney for the Cuyahoga County clerk of courts, said in an email.
Cuyahoga County prosecutor Tim McGinty's office had nothing to add beyond Wednesday's mention in court of plea negotiations, spokesman Joe Frolik said in an email.
The sticking point in the plea talks for Castro, whose trial is scheduled to begin Aug. 5, has been whether the prosecutor would rule out the death penalty as demanded by the defense. The prosecutor has that issue under review.
The 977-count indictment charges Castro with two counts of aggravated murder related to accusations he punched and starved one of the women until she miscarried. Castro, who has pleaded not guilty, also is charged with hundreds of counts of kidnapping and rape, plus assault and other crimes.
AP photo
Ariel Castro (center) looks up during court proceedings in Cleveland. Defense attorney Craig Weintraub (left), and Jaye Schlachet watch.
Juror says Zimmerman murdered Martin
ORLANDO, Fla. - The second juror to speak publicly told ABC News in an interview made available Thursday that she feels George Zimmerman got away with murder for fatally shooting Trayvon Martin, but that there wasn't enough evidence at trial to convict him under Florida law.
Juror B29 told Robin Roberts that she favored convicting Zimmerman of second-degree murder when deliberations began by the six-member, all-women jury.
"I was the juror that was going to give them a hung jury,'' she said. "I fought to the end.''
But by the second day of deliberating, she realized there wasn't enough proof to convict the 29-year-old neighborhood watch volunteer of a crime.
"George Zimmerman got away with murder, but you can't get away from God,'' she said. "And at the end of the day, he's going to have a lot of questions and answers he has to deal with.''
At least 42 die in Iraq violence
BAGHDAD - Emboldened militants in Iraq set up their own checkpoint to kill drivers and bombed crowded cafes Thursday in the deadliest of a series of attacks that killed at least 42 people, authorities said.
More than 550 people have been killed in violent attacks so far this month, according to an Associated Press count, as violence continues during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. The speaker of Iraqi parliament even has acknowledged that insecurity in the nation likely will get worse after a massive al-Qaida-claimed prison break freed hundreds of inmates.
The deadliest attack Thursday happened when a bomb exploded inside a crowded cafe north of Baghdad, killing 16 diners and wounded 20 others.
Iraqi police said that the blast targeted Noufel cafe near the town of Muqdadiyah, about 90 kilometers (60 miles) north of Baghdad.
U.S. scales down drone program in Pakistan
ISLAMABAD - The United States has drastically scaled back the number of drone attacks against militants in Pakistan and limited strikes to high-value targets in response to growing criticism of the program in this country.
Those actions appear to have temporarily appeased Pakistan's powerful generals, who publicly oppose the covert CIA strikes, U.S. officials said. But some officials are still worried about pushback from Pakistan's new civilian leaders, who took power in June with a strong stance on ending the attacks altogether.
The future of the drone program is likely to be a key item on the agenda during U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry's visit to Pakistan, which is expected soon.
Only 16 drone strikes have taken place in Pakistan so far this year, compared with a peak of 122 in 2010, 73 in 2011 and 48 in 2012, according to the New America Foundation, a U.S.-based think tank.
The CIA has been instructed to be more cautious with its attacks, limiting them to high-value targets and dropping the practice of so-called "signature strikes'' - hitting larger groups of suspected militants based purely on their behavior, such as being armed and meeting with known militants, said a current U.S. intelligence official.
- the associated press
and a former intelligence official briefed on the drone program.
