There's another face appearing on protest signs and pamphlets at TrayvonMartin rallies across the country.
The story of Marissa Alexander, who is serving a 20-year prison sentence for aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, is gaining national attention through online petitions, social media and protests in the aftermath of the George Zimmerman acquittal. 
The 32-year-old African-American mother of three from Jacksonville fired what she says was a warning shot at a wall during an argument with her husband, Rico Gray, in 2010. Gray was not wounded.
Alexander had a protective order against her husband at the time because he had beaten her in the past. She had no criminal record.
Her lawyers tried to get the case dismissed before trial under Florida's "stand your ground" law, but the court rejected the argument, saying Alexander fired out of anger, not fear for her life.
More than 20 states have "stand your ground" laws, which generally allow the use of lethal force for self-defense without the duty of trying to escape.
Florida Assistant State Attorney Richard Mantei told USA TODAY that much of the discussion about the Alexander case is inaccurate -- and social media are partly to blame.
"What's fueling the particular attention is a false narrative that's getting repeated as if it's actually true," he said.
Mantei said Alexander rejected a plea deal that would have gotten her three years in prison. Instead, she decided to go to trial and was sentenced to 20 years under a Florida minimum-sentencing law regarding the use of firearms.
He said Alexander pointed her gun in the direction of Gray, and his two children, who feared for their lives, fled the house and immediately called 911. The bullet came close to hitting Gray's head, the documents say.
Alexander's face was seen on protest signs and pamphlets at vigils for TrayvonMartin across the country Saturday. Rallies calling for Alexander's conviction to be overturned have been held in Oakland and Jacksonville. Petitions on change.org, whitehouse.gov, moveon.org and thepetitionsite.org have thousands of signatures.
Alexander's lawyers have filed an appeal of her conviction in 2012.
Jesse Jackson met with Alexander for an hour July 16 and phoned Florida State Attorney Angela Corey to discuss Alexander's charge and sentence.
Corey, who prosecuted Alexander and filed second-degree murder charges against Zimmerman in the death of TrayvonMartin, answered Jackson's questions about the prison sentence and reiterated the prosecution's case, said Jackelyn Barnard, the director of communication for the Florida State Attorney's Office.
The Zimmerman and Alexander cases show how "stand your ground" and other laws are applied unfairly to minorities, said Janaye Ingram, the Washington bureau chief of Al Sharpton's National Action Network.
Contributing: Steph Solis, USA TODAY 
