Where's the outrage for Antonio West?
Dear Editor:
I read "Obama gives voice to pain." He called on the nation to do some soul searching over the death of TrayvonMartin. But not Antonio West.
Thirty-five years ago we didn't have the problems we have today. No one would think of shooting a child or anyone else. Death sentences were given and carried out. Parents could correct their children -- now the law steps in and tells the parent what they can and can't do. No wonder our jails are filled. And, kids and adults think they are above the law. 
I don't see any outrage about the shooting of Antonio West in Brunswick, Ga.
When two black youths, 17-year-old De'Marquis Elkins and another 14-year-old juvenile, demanded that Sherry West, his mother, give them her money, she said she didn't have any. The teen fired four shots: One at the ground, one at her head, grazing her left ear, one at her left leg above the knee. They then proceeded around to the stroller and shot baby Antonio in the face. He was just 13 months old.
I didn't read about the president making a statement about this shooting. The media didn't care enough to cover it. There was no one going to Brunswick, Ga., to demand justice for this child. No one is protesting in the streets about his death and destroying city buildings.
My question is, what makes one child better than the other? Where is the equal justice? Perhaps it is one-sided or just color blindness.
R. V. Bean
Antioch
Protesters showed biases
Dear Editor:
It appears to me the jurors in the George Zimmerman/TrayvonMartin case were not biased and that the outcome was not racially motivated. I wish the same could be said about the protesters.
How interesting that they believe they have a better understanding of the facts and Florida law than the six jury members who decided the case.
While much of the nation's diverse population is working toward a color-blind society, those who disagree with the verdict seem to selectively pick and choose factors that support their biases and viewpoints. That's easy to do these days when the media do the same thing, and Internet chatter is based far more on emotion than on facts.
Justice based on equality, and discrimination based on racial preferences, are mutually exclusive. We can't have both.
We also can't have majority rule, which is the foundation of democracy, and federal investigations and rulings based on political pressure by special interests. Sadly, this nation is moving toward the latter.
Jeff Morris
Brentwood
Jury ignored the evidence
Dear Editor:
I don't think the jury understood the evidence that was presented to them. They were more focused on the stand-your-ground issue.
Against the advice of the 911 dispatcher, George Zimmerman left his vehicle and confronted TrayvonMartin.
Zimmerman testified that his weapon was in his waistband at his back. It is doubtful he could have reached the weapon with Martin straddling him. I believe Zimmerman had the gun in his hand and Martin tried to protect himself.
Some on the right are making Zimmerman out to be the victim; that he should get a medal and Martin got what he deserved. What sad excuses for humans.
While peaceful demonstrations are useful, in order to assure we have justice for all Americans, I urge all to register and vote.
J.W. Strawther
Antioch
Acquittal was outrageous
Dear Editor:
It is outrageous George Zimmerman was acquitted for killing TrayvonMartin.
Everyone keeps talking about the stand-your-ground law as one reason Zimmerman is free today. What I fail to hear is that Martin also was standing his ground, which I guess doesn't matter according to the jury.
Martin is not here to defend himself. I bet if he were, the verdict would have been very different. No justice whatsoever in this case.
I believe Zimmerman will definitely pay for his deeds by not being able to live a normal life. I hope it is miserable for him.
How very sad for Martin and his family. My heart and prayers go out to them.
Sheila Fisher
Brentwood
Trial was a political stunt
Dear Editor:
George Zimmerman was found not guilty of second-degree murder and manslaughter by a jury of six women (four of them mothers).
This verdict was reached because the prosecution could not present any evidence that proved guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
However, based on the non-existent evidence, the charges shouldn't have been brought. The entire matter was a political stunt by the Florida State Attorney Angela Corey in her attempt to enhance her ambition to run for higher office.
Nevertheless, the liberal media sees this as an opportunity to stir up racism and curry favor with minorities. They mask the fact that Zimmerman is a minority by referring to him as a "white" Hispanic. Ridiculous? Of course. But since when has the liberal media been accused of fairness and accuracy when a crisis can be used to advance their cause of racial pandering?
The only thing more deplorable in this matter is the fact that President Obama is trying to use the Zimmerman affair as a distraction from all the scandals that plague him and his administration.
Ernest Hampson
Pittsburg
Letters policy
Let your East County neighbors know what you think about issues of the day by writing a letter to the editor.
Send letters to Editor, The News, 1700 Cavallo Road, Antioch, CA 94509, or email them tobnews@bayareanewsgroup.com or fax them to Judith Prieve at 925-706-2305.
Letters should be signed. Both letters and email should include the daytime phone number and address of the writer. The information will not be printed but rather used for verification purposes.
We reserve the right to edit or not publish letters deemed potentially libelous, that are ads for local businesses or are otherwise unsuitable for a family newspaper.
Also, we are looking for guest commentaries, especially on local issues. Please send your guest commentaries tojprieve@bayareanewsgroup.com orbnews@bayareanewsgroup.com . If you have any questions, call 925-779-7178.
