Obamacare was a disaster from the start
The editorial staff at the Post-Dispatch has always been irony-impaired. Your editorial "Last gasp" (July 21) confirms that and completely gives up the game for Obamacare proponents.
The claim that "Obamacare might actually work" is belied by the actual facts. The statement that rates have fallen in some states is not at all supported by what has actually happened. The studies that claim to show that do not compare like policies and even worse, relative to the types of policies actually purchased in the individual markets, rates are several times more expensive. Obamacare has the effect of telling people that they can't actually keep the plan they have. Instead, they have to buy plans that are much more costly. You see, those rubes just did not know enough to buy the plans that the federal government deems appropriate for them.
The one state where Obamacare had minimal impact is in New York. That is because government interference, in this case from the state, many years ago already had the effect of driving rates up to unsustainable levels and reducing the individual market by some 90 percent. The situation was so bad there that Obamacare did make it somewhat better. So now, we are going to have New York writ large across the country. 
The most obvious contradiction however comes in your last paragraph. There you admit that the economics of Obamacare cannot work. "Inevitably, economics will force it to give way to a single-payer national health care system." Well of course, that is what the proponents wanted all along. Since the design is such a train wreck, it is predestined to fail. My concern is that the wrong people will be blamed. Instead of the proponents of Obamacare, the unions, the left-wing special interests and the politicians who owe their sinecures to those special interests, somehow insurers, hospitals, doctors and pharmaceutical companies will take the blame. You mention the nasty Republicans, and I'm sure they'll take their share of the blame too because they knew it was a disaster from the start. At least we know the game plan.
Jay Kirschbaum o Chesterfield
Applaud those students, families who pursue an excellent education
The letter from Joseph Carroll ("Editorials on school transfers distort racial issues," July 20) makes me ashamed to be a resident of St. Louis. I attribute my feelings of shame to characteristics of my race - the human race.
Mr. Carroll sites what he calls "characteristics of blacks." I wonder if he would feel equally comfortable citing that Hispanics are predisposed to become gardeners, Irish to drink, Germans to love military marches and swastikas, and Italians to form family-based crime syndicates. His arguments and statements are fallacious and not supported by facts or educational material.
What Mr. Carroll doesn't seem to take into account is the impact environment has on those that are forced to inhabit that community. Poor socioeconomic conditions certainly contribute mightily to all of the negative and destructive behaviors he mentions. These behaviors could occur whether the neighborhood was black or white, and any impartial study will support that.
While I applaud any citizen's right to speak and am certainly sympathetic to the questions, fears, apprehensions and misinformation that parents, teachers, students and officials face in this situation, it is only by coming together with an open dialogue and respect that this situation can be successfully navigated.
What is the great leveler: an excellent education. Educational opportunities can allow for the freedom to rise above any circumstances, to soar to heights commanded by hard work, dedication and the love of learning. Too long have we created and fostered an unequal class system by offering education equal in value to the economic wealth of a community.
Instead, I would applaud any family and participant in the educational process willing to question and listen with an open mind - not one blinded by debunked and vicious stereotypes. I would applaud any student who is willing to be bused 20-30 miles and enter a different environment, because they so value education. I would applaud those willing to work together because they, too, recognize the value of an excellent education and the opportunities it offers.
Maureen Redig o Olivette
Gun industry benefits from shoot-first message
The media have shown us just how possible it is to gun down, with impunity and without a shred of remorse, someone who you merely suspect intends to commit a crime.
What message does this escape hatch for felons send? It depends on the receiver. For a young black male, the message might be "carry a gun, shoot first and plead self-defense." For the firearms industry, the obvious message is "keep on doing what you've been doing."
If this isn't the best of all possible worlds for the gun industry, it has to be close.
Benjamin F. Frick o Warrenton
Society is safer with concealed carry
Regarding Kathleen Parker's column "The road to bedlam" (July 17):
About halfway through the piece, she makes the statement "It seems impossible that someone's young son, guilty of nothing, should die." Trayvon Martin was guilty of nothing up to the point that he struck George Zimmerman, apparently breaking his nose, and then was on top of him striking him further and banging his head on the concrete. In any jurisdiction this is assault, and had Mr. Martin prevailed he likely would have been certified to stand trial as an adult for this violent crime.
Secondly, at the end of the article the statement is made "What was George Zimmerman doing walking around his neighborhood armed and loaded? In what world is this normal behavior?" Mr. Zimmerman was walking around his neighborhood because of a crime problem. He was legally armed because he had a concealed carry permit. This is normal behavior in 49 states, soon to be 50 states.
Consider that the Government Accountability Office, in a study last year, estimated that approximately 8 million U.S. citizens have active concealed carry permits. These people are predominantly law-abiding citizens. The American Journal of Public Health published a study in the January issue that concluded in part "CHL holders were much less likely than nonlicensees to be convicted of crimes." This was based on studying crimes in Texas from 2001-2009 committed by license holders and non-license holders.
The FBI has also published statistics that the crime rate has dropped dramatically over the last 10 years, while the number of concealed carry permit holders has gone up. There are undoubtedly other factors involved, but there is evidence our society is safer with law-abiding citizens responsibly armed.
Larry McAlpin o Washington, Mo.
License to kill in Florida
Even in fiction, Ian Fleming only let Her Majesty's Secret Service hand out a very few "licensed to kill" numbers, of which James Bond's was 007. Seven! How many licenses-to-kill is Florida prepared to hand out? Millions?
Stephen Brown o O'Fallon, Ill.
Physicians' assistants without a physician?
Regarding "New Missouri law aims to ease doctor shortage" (July 14):
If the cost and availability of primary medical care is such that physicians' assistants will be allowed to treat patients when they are not working under the direct supervision of a physician, will not their job title have to be revised?
Mary K. Morgan o Oakville
