I wish there were easy answers to the dialogue surrounding the murder of Trayvon Benjamin Martin and the acquittal of his assailant, George Zimmerman.
I wish we could just put it all to rest, saying it was a tragedy and that now, with the conclusion of the criminal proceedings, justice has been served.
But we can't. And we shouldn't. There are conversations to be explored, lessons to be learned and consequences impacting the America we profess to love -- if you love this country, you must love her people. 
On a recent CNN panel, author Michaela Angela Davis referred to the challenge of African-American men. The days of ducking down, shuck-n-jive, getting by and getting home have not ended. It was telling to hear the male panelists, ranging from young adulthood to middle-age, recount the warnings their parents gave them, now made to their sons. My parents and aunt made the same warnings to my brothers and male cousins; I now pass them on to the young men in my world.
It was telling and painful to watch as the President of the United States of America stood before the White House press corps and revealed that, not only could he have been TrayvonMartin, he had been profiled and held suspect -- because of the color of his skin. And he tried to explain the outrage of the American people.
It is painful as my brothers and nephews relate stories about experiences and the on-going presuppositions made based upon their appearance. It is more painful when they brush off these unjust experiences as another part of life. As children of the Civil Rights era it is doubly painful -- our parents dared to challenge racist structures, our generation was supposed to be different, the heralds of a new era in America.
TrayvonMartin was called many untrue things -- criminal, aggressor, drug-user, gang member. He was a 17-year- old boy, walking from the store in his father's neighborhood, minding his own business, chatting with his friend on the cellphone.
This child was a good son, an honors student, on his way to college, who performed community service and was active in his church. He had no criminal record. He was not affiliated with a gang. He wore a hooded sweatshirt on a rainy evening -- and he was black.
The conversation has failed to reflect upon the safety of any child on our streets, even in a gated community. The conversation has failed to consider that all of our children are schooled to stay away from strangers who approach them -- and to fight back.
A friend asked me, "Why are you people still talking about this? Zimmerman won; let it rest."
We "people" are still talking about it because it needs to be discussed. This is not about black-on-black killing in the ghettos. This is not about the number of black kids caught up in the criminal justice system. Although these issues are pervasive and point to larger systemic issues, they are simply not the point.
The unadulterated issue is this -- children are not safe. Not only do they have to defer to law enforcement, we must now teach them to defer to armed civilians acting as vigilantes who suspect them of wrongdoing based upon the color of their skin.
And had the tables been turned, the whole case would have been handled differently.
Unless we root out the prejudices within our hearts, unless we confront them and educate ourselves, racism will remain prevalent in our society - on both systemic and individual levels. Until we confront our unfortunate collective history, the legacy of slavery still coloring perceptions and policy, and raise these ghosts we will never lay them to rest.
We're tired. And by 2013, we thought we'd be talking about something else.
Ouisa D. Davis is an attorney at law in El Paso. E-mail: Ouisadavis@yahoo.com
