TALLAHASSEE: Moved to action by Zimmerman case, and not going away
TALLAHASSEE
Living on pizza, sleeping on mats and asking for fundamental changes in laws affecting minorities, a group of young activists on Friday began their 11th day occupying the Florida state Capitol, with no sign of resolution in the standoff.
The protesters, part of a group called the Dream Defenders, are keeping up a 24-hour-a-day vigil outside Gov. Rick Scott's office, following the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed 17-year-old, in Sanford.
And group members have said they do not plan to leave until Scott or legislative leaders call a special session to address their concerns, including Florida's "stand your ground" self-defense law and racial profiling. 
"It's not supposed to be easy. It's not supposed to be comfortable," said Philip Agnew, one of the leaders of the Dream Defenders. "We expected a no. We're young and idealistic but we're not na&iuml;ve."
The protest has been peaceful and civil, with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement only reporting a few minor instances of police intervention. In one case, officers asked three protesters sleeping in small chapel on the ground floor of the Capitol to move to another area. Officers have also prohibited the use of air mattresses, saying they had the potential to block access to hallways and exits in an emergency.
Leaders for the activists said their group has been treated fairly by the security officers.
"They have been very professional," said Ahmad Abuznaid, a 28-year-old Miami lawyer who is a legal and policy director for the Dream Defenders.
Through Thursday, the FDLE reported an additional $50,000 has been spent on overtime pay for officers watching the Capitol.
But both sides have accommodated each other. For instance, while the protestors sit on the furniture and carpet in the waiting room of the Governor's Office each day, a corridor marked off by tape on the carpet allows regular visitors to enter and leave the office.
The number of protesters -- who are largely college-age students and young adults -- has varied, since they can come and go during the regular hours at the Capitol but are locked in at night on the first floor.
On Thursday, 86 activists -- bolstered by a busload of protesters from Philadelphia -- stayed overnight, compared with 16 on Wednesday, the FDLE said.
Regina Joseph, a 19-year-old sophomore from Florida State University and a leader in FSU's Dream Defenders chapter, spent nearly a week in the Capitol, sleeping on a comforter while clutching a large stuffed dog named Wilson. She said she had to take a break by Tuesday. "I was going crazy," she said.
But the political science major has consistently returned to join the protesters, even though it means she has not been able to attend her FSU class this summer on gay politics and policy. "I told my teacher: 'Sorry, I've got to occupy the Capitol,'" she said. "And she understands."
Although her attendance has been spotty, Joseph said she has completed all of her class assignments and has maintained good grades. And she said she will take a similar approach when fall classes start.
"If I'm not in a class I'm going to try to be here," Joseph said. "As a leader I'm trying set an example."
Joseph and the other Dream Defenders members have also emphasized that their protest is aimed at changing more than the "stand your ground" self-defense law that was originally linked to the shooting. They also want Scott and state lawmakers to change "zero tolerance" policies in public schools that they say target minority youth and lead to unnecessary suspensions or removal from the schools. And they want stronger laws against racial profiling.
"We are racially profiled every single day," said Melanie Andrade, head of the Dream Defenders chapter at Florida A&M University.
To highlight those issues, the Dream Defenders plan to stage a series of "Takeover Tuesdays," where each of those topics will be discussed by experts and community members, beginning next week. Some are drawing parallels to the "Moral Monday" protests that are taking place weekly in North Carolina's state Capitol, although those protests have been marked by hundreds of arrests.
Others see similarities between Florida's protest and the civil rights era. "We're the new SNCC," said Joseph, citing the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee that organized protests in the South after a group of black college students were denied service at a Woolworth's lunch counter in the early 1960s.
Scott has been largely absent from his office. However, he met with the Dream Defenders a few days after they began their protest, although he made it clear he did not intend to call a special session nor did he support changing the "stand your ground" law. He also asked Wansley Walters, his secretary for the Department of Juvenile Justice, to meet with the protesters and talk about their issues.
Sen. Nan Rich, D-Weston, who is running against Scott for governor next year, planed to meet with the Dream Defenders today, but the FDLE said she could not because the Capitol is closed on weekends. She said while they may face an uphill fight from the governor and Republican legislative leaders in changing some of the laws, she said their protest has brought a new focus on issues that sometimes don't even get a hearing in the Legislature -- such as gun-control laws.
"There are many significant issues that need to be addressed," Rich said. "I think they're shining a light on it in a very thoughtful, peaceful demonstration. I think it's exciting when young people become a part of the process."
A long wait may be tough on the young activists who use thin mats to sleep on the uncarpeted Capitol building floor each night and rely on donations and other in-kind support, including the delivery of pizza and toiletries.
Agnew, one of the Dream Defenders leaders, said he welcomed the physical challenges.
"To be honest with you, I want to be able to say that we won this through perseverance," Agnew said. "If you come in here and there are a bunch of air mattresses, it kind takes a little bit away from that experience."
"Nothing worth having is easy," he added. "When you live it, it becomes a lot more real. We're just determined. Why give up? What do we have to go back to?"
