Airport project critical
As the former manager of the Federal Aviation Administration's San Francisco Airports District Office, I have followed the progress of Monterey Regional Airport's Runway Safety Area Improvements Project from its inception.
This project is in response to 2006 congressional action that mandated that the FAA ensure that all commercial service airports implement runway safety areas that meet FAA standards no later than 2015.
Having served in FAA positions in airport engineering and planning, I am very familiar with FAA standards. These standards do not allow service roads to cross runways. Given the difficult site constraints, the alternative selected by the Monterey Airport District to accomplish the project is the most feasible. The district's Revised Draft Environmental Impact Report clearly stated the necessity of locating the service roads beyond the ends of the runway safety areas. 
This project is a federally mandated safety project. It has been evaluated by the FAA according to the National Environmental Policy Act and found environmentally acceptable. The FAA is committed to funding the project. The unfortunate recent Asiana Airlines accident at San Francisco International Airport underscores the urgent need for Monterey's project to move forward.
John L. Pfeifer, P.E.Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association
More important issues than Zimmerman case
I am fed up with all the nonsense about the Trayvon Martin/George Zimmerman case. It's over, the verdict is in, Zimmerman was acquitted, so let's move on. It's time for Al Sharpton, Jesse Jackson, President Barack Obama and the like to stop and move on to more pressing issues.
If they really want to do some good for the black community, they can start by focusing their attention on more pressing issues such as the out-of-control (black on black) youth gang killings that are rampant in Chicago. Why don't we hear anything about that?
There are many more pressing issues that these folks ignore, as do the mainstream media.
Please, let's move on to something else. Hey, I have an idea for Zimmerman: Change your name to Benghazi and we'll be overtaken by an eerie silence; we won't hear another word about the case.
Brooks MerrittMarina
We're also the home of the brave
I truly cherish living in the land of the free.
Our elected officials' oath of office rightly commits them to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. That's why I am quite disturbed by secret surveillance programs such as PRISM, the existence of which I previously dismissed as the paranoid thoughts of conspiracy theorists.
Are we not at an inflection point here?
Down one road we find a steady diminishing of our most fundamental rights and a marginalization of the Constitution in the name of national security.
Down the other road we have a free people and a transparent government that first and foremost defends our Constitution; that honors our rights and debates national security programs in public.
Yes, we'll face some risks from enemies foreign and domestic as that oath spells out. But, are we not also the home of the brave? Our representatives must recognize that these programs are a massive mistake that might be becoming of a fearful country of cowards but most definitely not these United States of America.
Marco FlaggCarmel Valley
Let's finally get immigration reform in place
The U.S. Senate has passed a comprehensive and bipartisan framework for immigration reform. Crucially, the bill outlines a pathway to citizenship, protections for workers' rights and provisions to reunite immigrant families. For many thousands of our immigrant workers in the Monterey Bay region, such legislation would be transformative.
We are one step closer.
Back in 1986, immigration reform enabled me to become a citizen, get good work, buy a Seaside home and raise a family of college-bound children. I wish the same for so many immigrants today.
Immigrant workers play a vital role in our economy. They are the lifeblood of our county's two biggest industries, agriculture and tourism. Like all Americans, immigrants want the opportunity to provide for themselves and their families. They want the chance that I got.
I urge all residents of the Monterey Bay area to continue the push for immigration reform in the U.S. House of Representatives, so that immigrants can achieve citizenship and participate as full members of our society.
Immigration reform worked in the 1980s. It can work again.
The time is now!
Sergio RangelPresident, UNITE HERE Local 483
'Pro-choice' really means 'pro-abortion'
The political term "pro-choice" is really misleading. It is not about giving a woman a "choice" at all. The term "pro-choice" is a lie complete with hidden motives and deception in order to keep the women of America in line with their agenda. "Choice" is not a part of it at all.
Proof of that can be seen in the actions of the pro-choice movement. They have fought throughout the United States to stop any laws or propositions that would require a woman to see an ultrasound of their fetus, because being informed that their fetus has arms, legs and a beating heart would provide the woman too much information   it might affect "her choice."
The pro-choice movement would argue that such a requirement would put an "undue burden" on the woman. In other words, it would make it more difficult for her to have the abortion and it might give her information that would help her recognize that she is carrying a baby within her womb. They are not interested in helping her make a well-informed choice. Too much information might change her mind and save the baby.
The real meaning of "pro-choice" is "pro-abortion."
Thomas R. LukesSalinas
