Micro-housing way to go
The July 20 Herald proclaims"Home prices up, inventory down."
That's not good news for us or our maturing youth who are in a bind due to lack of earnings to meet local rents. Some double up in housing or live in their cars and vans for a while. They may have to leave the area and this results in a loss of community and quality of life for everyone.
Zoning change could allow smaller, more affordable, environment friendly "micro-houses." Four micro-houses would fit on a lot originally planned for one older-style house. In some areas, micro-house villages at the edge of town would be a way to grow our communities. With mini-garden plots and moped pathways alongside bike and hiking paths, it could be a very attractive alternative to more million-dollar houses. 
Charles WilsonMonterey
End racial bickering over Zimmerman
I wish people would end their bickering over the race issue involving the George Zimmerman trial. It is destructive to social cohesion and damages race relations.
Unfortunately, one side in the debate wants to gain political brownie points. They need to sit down and look at the facts concerning race. Zimmerman is not only half-Hispanic, but has black family members (Afro-Peruvian roots), some who have lived with him. He is a registered Democrat who voted and campaigned for President Barack Obama. Zimmerman has mentored underprivileged black children, dated and took a black girl to the prom. He partnered with a black in an insurance company venture in Florida. He even organized a campaign to assist a homeless black man who was beaten by a white bully.
So, what is all the fuss about race? I think some people are trying to use race for their own personal advantage, to gain moral and financial support for their causes. They somehow feel justified in overlooking the facts to get what they want.
Sadly, their actions are stirring up racial tensions and disharmony. This is the real tragedy.
Lawrence SamuelsCarmel
Maybe it's time to outlaw hoodies
So many mistakes were made in the Trayvon Martin case on both sides.
After reading of thedemonstration in Seaside on July 20 about some demonstrators wearing black hoodies, as was Martin, it made me stop and think that maybe we should enact a law making the sale and wearing of black hoodies illegal.
Almost every crime that you read about anymore, especially in Salinas, the suspect was wearing a black hoodie. The crime rate across the nation would probably drop and young men like Martin might not look quite as suspicious, regardless of race.
Jim EgbertSeaside
Might be better to pay the fine
I am confused.
I am of mixed heritage. My grandfather was Hispanic from Puerto Rico. My grandmother looked Chinese but said she descended from African slaves. My mother was from Queens and was definitely Jewish, and my dad was Germanic or maybe French.
When you look at me, you can't tell what race I am. Some people think I actually look Arabic until they see my last name.
My question is this: If I am stopped by the police for going over the speed limit, what are my options? Can I claim racial profiling? If so, what race am I? Should I call the American Civil Liberties Union, the Anti-Defamation League, the United Arabic Federation, the NAACP or League of United Latin American Citizens?
Or should I just pay the speeding ticket?
Carol MarquartPacific Grove
Zimmerman shouldn't have gotten off
It doesn't matter whether George Zimmerman is a Catholic or a Jew or a Zoroastrian.
He chased down an innocent kid and killed him for no reason that you would accept if that had been your kid. And the law let him off scot-free.
That needs to be fixed.
Skip SeibelPacific Grove
Banks still making massive profits
"It is time,"writes Jim Leinenkugel on July 21 , "for Congress and the administration to get out of the way and eliminate the bureaucratic stranglehold they place on our economy."
Strangleholds are unpleasant. Fortunately, though, this one would seem to lack muscle.
In the second quarter of 2013, the nation's six largest banks reported profits of $27 billion.
Lester GornPacific Grove
Misconceptions about Stevenson's stay
Your otherwise nicely presentedJuly 21 supplement "Living Here" contains one glaring piece of misinformation: the long-discredited claim that Robert Louis Stevenson began writing "Treasure Island" during his stay here in 1879. It simply isn't true.
Austin Strong, Stevenson's stepgrandson, became so irritated by the issue that he penned a strongly-worded letter to state parks in the 1940s, demanding its people stop making the claim.
Today, interpreters and docents for state parks are excellent sources for accurate, reliable information about all things Stevenson, including how he came to write "Treasure Island."
It's a fascinating story, but it took place well after he left Monterey.
John A. GreenwaldMonterey
