Trayvon protests aren't helping
The George Zimmerman trial has stirred up angry protests against our legal system. The legal system is not perfect and needs some reform. However, these protests viewed in a larger context, do more harm than good. The protests contribute to the polarization of a black and white society and are a distraction from a more fundamental problem. 
I watched the entire trial. The jury made the right decision. If TrayvonMartin felt threatened he had plenty of time to leave the area. He chose to confront George Zimmerman and initiate the physical attack resulting in his death. In Trayvon's world, violence is an acceptable way to solve a problem.
During the last week of the trial, more than a dozen African Americans were murdered by African American males in Chicago. This "black on black" violence is common in urban settings. Using violence to solve problems is learned early in life. Young children learn most coping skills from their parents. The lack of positive role models for these African American children in their early years make them more likely to adopt negative coping skills. If these protesters want to solve the fundamental issue, they will mentor or be a positive role model for an African-American child.
TrayvonMartin would be alive today if he chose a more rational response to a perceived threat.
Ron Mengarelli
Gilberts
Who is GOP looking out for?
Thanks to Obamacare, the premiums on health insurance went down 50 percent in New York. This is in addition to closing the drug doughnut hole, covering children until they're 26 and preventing insurance companies from dumping clients if they get really sick and run-up extensive medical bills.
But, of course, the Tea Party-controlled House of Representative has voted 38 times to repeal Obamacare and almost all of the GOP governors have refused to participate even though the federal government pays for 95 percent
You have to wonder who the Republicans are looking out for. It sure isn't people who want cheaper insurance coverage. Maybe it's those lobbyists on K-Street and their political donors?
Tom Minnerick
Elgin
The things Trayvon might have done
President Barack Obama, a Democrat, recently commented on George Zimmerman's acquittal. He said that Zimmerman's victim, TrayvonMartin, could have been he (Obama) 35 years ago. That statement struck me as a very deep thought.
TrayvonMartin, for all his problems as a teenager, could have become a professor of constitutional law at the University of Chicago. He could have become president. He could have won a Nobel Prize for peace. He could have closed the military prison at Guantanamo Bay. He could have fixed race relations among Americans. He could have brought peace to the Middle East. He could have stopped the use of drones. He could have put a leash on the IRS and the NSA. He could have ended the Great Depression II. He could have passed the Free Medical Care Act, a 44,000 page bill which would have fixed forever the problems caused by the Affordable Care Act (aka "Obamacare").
But, no, George Zimmerman messed everything up. His audacity destroyed America's hope.
George Kocan
Warrenville
