This newspaper that aspires to journalism of hope populates its front page with seemingly hopeless stories: A 28-year-old mixed-race Hispanic shoots and kills a black 17-year-old, with racial overtones. A 19-year-old convert to Islam is indicted and arrested for conspiring and attempting to support terrorism, with religious overtones.
Where is the hope there? 
Maybe it's in what we as a community learn from those three wasted young lives.
There actually is some positive that I think came out of the deadly encounter between Trayvon Martin and George Zimmerman, really from our subsequent conversations and discussions about who was responsible for what in those few dark minutes.
Zimmerman started the confrontation, ignoring a 911 request to stand back. Martin may have started the violence, banging Zimmerman's head. But Zimmerman brought the gun and pulled the trigger. Both brought attitudes.
As he approached Martin, Zimmerman profiled what he thought was a hoodie-hiding black burglar on the make. Martin perceived the neighborhood-watch cop-wannabe as a "creepy-ass cracker." It was dark, and the young men's testosterone fueled what may have been inevitable at that point.
The case took over TV coverage, water coolers and social media. We've all sorted out our opinions of relative culpability. Mine were aided by serious and constructive discussions in our editorial board and on a panel last week at the Florida Society of News Editors.
And we've learned some things.
I hope, and expect, that neighborhood watch programs across the country have studied the Sanford tragedy and will work harder on selecting and training their volunteers, particularly emphasizing their usual policies of not confronting suspects and not being armed.
I expect, sadly enough, that black parents will refine "the talk" they have with their sons. "You know that 'talk,' " KJ Dell'Antonia wrote in The New York Times. "The one that has nothing to do with sex, and everything to do with what it means to be a black teenager in a country with a history of regarding young black men as a threat. The talk about standing up straight, dressing the part, keeping your hands in sight at all times and never, ever letting your anger get the best of you."
While older people should have learned that a hoodie doesn't connote criminality or danger, maybe younger people will figure out that deliberately taking on thug attire as a style statement can get you perceived as a thug even when you aren't one.
Another positive is a national discussion on "stand your ground" laws, though that didn't play a major role in the Zimmerman trial. The American Bar Association is studying the issue, and protesters, including in Florida, are asking for legislatures to reconsider the laws.
We in journalism also should have learned some things. On that FSNE panel and elsewhere, we were criticized for not covering the Zimmerman case enough before he was charged, and then for covering it too much and sensationalizing it. But then panelists asked us to come back and dig more deeply into some of these issues.
We should have learned that not all controversies involving race and court decisions will drive angry black people into the streets. A number of reports speculated in advance on what a not-guilty verdict might mean. I saw TV reporters covering empty streets and marveling that no one had showed up to loot and burn. The Times-Union had contingency plans.
An Orlando Sentinel editor on the panel said she was proud of her staff's truth-checking. "We took a step back every couple of weeks in the beginning and we said, 'What are the ridiculous rumors that are going around out there?' "
Back in Jacksonville, the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force secured a federal indictment charging Shelton Thomas Bell, 19, with conspiring and attempting to provide material support to terrorists.
What we as a community should learn from that was down in our story: Bell came to the attention of the FBI because he aroused the suspicions of other Muslims at the Islamic Center of Northeast Florida by what he was saying to teenagers about "liberating" Muslims, jihad, training with guns, traveling to Middle East war zones.
A teenager told his dad, who told center leaders, who notified the FBI.
Parvez Ahmed, board secretary, said "the consistent message from the Islamic Center leadership to the community is: If you see something, say something. Be in communication with your children and alert to signs of radicalization.
"Did Bell constitute a threat, or was it just a part of his First Amendment free-speech rights? We turned it over to the experts [the FBI]. We certainly don't want anyone's free-speech rights to be abridged, but we also don't want anyone to incite violence."
You have heard people blame Islam for terrorism and say it is inherent in the religion. They should learn from this episode.
There are far too many of these stories in our newspaper and websites, but within our reporting and your reading and thoughtful consideration, there is always hope, that we as a society do learn and get better, however frustratingly slowly, one day at a time.
frank.denton@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4197
