DESPITE THE outrage sparked by George Zimmerman's acquittal in the Florida shooting death of Trayvon Martin, a local group said last night that it thinks race relations in the country are improving. 
 The sentiment came out of a group discussion hosted in Brewerytown by the Father's Day Rally Committee on the controversial verdict, which reignited national debate about racial profiling and equal justice. The discussion included about 20 men, many of whom are in drug-recovery programs, and composed of a mix of races and ages.
 "The old traditional ways of how your family instilled in you, you can't be around this race or this race, society is starting to overlook that now and come more together," said Michael Thompson, 39, of West Philadelphia. "Interracial relationships are more accepted."
 Thompson, who is white, shared a story of taking a black female friend to a family gathering last Christmas and getting to meet her family separately. While they were apprehensive about how they would be received by the other's family, Thompson said both families handled it well.
 "It went down good on both sides and my family still asks, 'Do you still see her?' " he said.
 Despite their optimism about race relations overall, many participants said they believe Martin was racially profiled and that race played a factor in the outcome, citing the five white women on the six-person jury.
 "It ain't like O.J. [Simpson] with the small gloves," said Victor Martinez, 36, of Grays Ferry. "They got way more stuff they could have used [to prosecute the case]."
 Some in the group referred to President Obama's comments last week when he talked about his own experiences of being stereotyped, citing that as a factor in Martin's death. Others suggested popular culture and the perception of hoodies played a role.
 Bilal Qayyum, president of the committee, said he learned a lot from the dialogue and hopes to replicate it on a larger scale.
 "I think it was a great discussion and more discussions like these need to happen across the city in different venues where you get white men and black men sitting down talking about race," he said. "I think this is a great model to look at to continue the discussion."
@ChroniclesofSol
