OROVILLE -- People marched with the Butte County National Association for the Advancement of Colored People on Tuesday to protest laws that allowed George Zimmerman to be acquitted of second-degree murder for shooting TrayvonMartin.
Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, claimed self-defense in the 2012 shooting of the teenager in a gated community in Florida where Martin was staying.
A jury found Zimmerman not guilty in Seminole Circuit Court in Florida on July 13.
The local NAACP, Unit 1029, led the march. Protesters started at the northwest corner of Home Depot, crossing Nelson Avenue and marching up County Center Drive toward the Butte County Superior Courthouse.
NAACP President Irma Jordan called for a peaceable march. Jordan and Pastor Kevin Thompson of the Number One Church of God in Christ led the marchers singing, "We are standing for justice. We will not be stopped."
The group gathered on the steps of the courthouse. Jordan said the Zimmerman trial is over.
"We cannot go back, but we can stop other TrayvonMartin shootings from happening," Jordan said.
Jordan said, "We all have the same rights given by God, and the TrayvonMartin verdict was unfair."
Jordan asked people to support changes including of the "Stand Your Ground" laws on self-defense, racial and other profiling, and the removal of a section of the Voting Rights Act.
Earlier this year, the United States Supreme Court voted to remove the section of the Voting Rights Act that requires places with a history of discrimination to get approval before changing the way elections are held.
Tim Harrison, pastor of the New Home Missionary Baptist Church, said the Zimmerman case includes all the elements required for a United States Department of Justice investigation.
Florida authorities have delivered all evidence related to the Zimmerman investigation to federal officials, who are weighing whether to pursue a civil rights case.
Celia Hirschman of the Historic Downtown Oroville Neighborhood Watch said they do not support violence by neighborhood watch volunteers.
"We do not support what Zimmerman did," Hirschman said.
Jordan handed out packets of information people can use to protest laws.
Seng Yang, of the Hmong Cultural Center of Butte County, also spoke about supporting equal justice for all.
James Bradford, born and raised in Oroville, came from Sacramento to participate in the march to support changes in laws.
Bradford said a lot of African-American youth in Florida and other areas are living in fear in the aftermath of the Zimmerman trial.
"That's leading to a gateway for things like that (the Martin shooting) to happen again," Bradford said.
Staff writer Mary Weston can be reached at 533-4415 or mweston@orovillemr.com
