William C. Thompson Jr., the sole African-American in this year's New York City mayoral contest, rarely talks about race. In a city of flame-throwing orators, he has long favored a political path of conciliation over confrontation.
But on Sunday, Mr. Thompson arrived before a mostly black congregation in a storefront church and issued a fierce denunciation of the policies of the New York Police Department, saying they are drawn from the same racial suspicions that drove George Zimmerman to hunt down TrayvonMartin.
''Here in New York City, we have institutionalized Mr. Zimmerman's suspicion with a policy that all but requires our police officers to treat young black and Latino men with suspicion, to stop them and frisk them because of the color of their skin,'' Mr. Thompson said at the Abundant Life Church in the Prospect Heights section of Brooklyn.
The remarks, which were unusually soaring, provocative and personal, arrived at a crucial moment in the campaign: despite Mr. Thompson's presence in the race, black voters, sounding notes of forgiveness, have been strikingly receptive to the candidacy of former Congressman Anthony D. Weiner. 
With Mr. Weiner's campaign now reeling from new revelations about his online sexual encounters with women, Mr. Thompson needs to win over those African-Americans and turn them out in large numbers to prevail in the race to succeed Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
Advisers to Mr. Thompson have suggested that voters in minority neighborhoods may make up their minds late in a campaign, and, in the final stretch of the race, he will make a major push to secure their embrace.
When Mr. Thompson first took the plexiglass lectern at the squat church filled with folding chairs shortly after 11 a.m., he acknowledged that delving into the sensitive subject of race was ''not my first or natural instinct.'' But he proceeded to put forth the most assertive address of the campaign on the polarizing issue of stop and frisk, a tactic heralded by the city's police as a lifesaving deterrent and assailed by a generation of black and Latino men as overused and abusive.
Of what Mr. Thompson said were the 600,000 blacks and Latinos stopped by the New York police in 2011, a vast majority were innocent, he said -- ''profiled as Trayvon was profiled.''
''If our government profiles people because of skin color and treats them as potential criminals, how can we expect citizens to do any less?'' Mr. Thompson asked, as church members loudly applauded and occasionally interrupted with cries of ''amen.''
For black voters unsettled by the Bloomberg era of law enforcement, Mr. Thompson occupies an intriguing place in the campaign. He has defended elements of the stop-and-frisk policy as effective and stops short of the call to abolish it advocated by a Democratic rival, John C. Liu, the city comptroller, positions that have earned Mr. Thompson the support of major police unions.
But he has made clear he would replace the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, overhaul the stop-and-frisk strategy to ban racial profiling, and limit reliance on the practice by hiring 2,000 more officers and putting more experienced ones in high-crime areas.
On Sunday, though, he talked about the issues in human terms, as a father and a husband. Mr. Thompson, the son of a Democratic judge in State Supreme Court and a schoolteacher, acknowledged that his biography did not put him in the same shoes as many black and Latino men across the city.
''I am the son of the struggle before me,'' he said. ''And although it has not ended, I have lived in the blessing of its success so far.''
But, invoking the ''dreams of our fathers'' and ''dreams for our sons,'' he said he felt compelled to speak out after the acquittal of Mr. Zimmerman. ''When the rules of society -- that we call and honor as the law -- allow even one of those dreams to be snuffed out in anger and fear without consequence or action, those rules fail us all,'' he said.
Inside the church, where the mostly black congregants said they had anticipated a tepid speech from another politician, there was a mixture of surprise and admiration.
''I wasn't expecting that at all,'' said Karen Khan, 52, who teaches middle school in Brooklyn, and had never known Mr. Thompson to talk about race. ''I thought it was going to be one of those speeches designed to pacify the issue. Sweep it under the rug -- O.K., let's move on.''
Several said in interviews that the speech had compelled them to re-evaluate his candidacy.
''He would get my vote based on the passion in his speech today,'' said Khalid Douglas, 33, a structural engineer. ''It improved my opinion of him.''
For Mr. Thompson the speech was a departure not just in tone, but in style. He spoke about ''a chorus of common dreams'' and ''the stubborn stain of enduring racism.'' He described the emotional experience of watching President Obama discuss the George Zimmerman verdict, ''stripped of that power, not as president, but as the black man he is, I am, and we will always be.'' He wondered what moved this ''dignified, calm, thoughtful man'' to speak, almost sounding as if he could be referring to himself.
Mr. Thompson said he had endured criticism ''from people I know and trust and respect'' for declaring, after Mr. Zimmerman's acquittal, that Mr. Martin was killed because of his skin color. But he reiterated that belief again on Sunday.
''TrayvonMartin did die because he was black. Of that, there is no doubt,'' Mr. Thompson said, adding, ''The verdict in Florida was a verdict -- but it was not the verdict.''
The 20-minute address will not be the last appeal to minorities, who, for the first time, are expected to make up a majority of the New York City electorate this season, starting with the Sept. 10 primary. Bill de Blasio, the city's public advocate, has showcased his interracial family (he married an African-American) while Christine C. Quinn is targeting black and Latino women, and the city's comptroller, Mr. Liu, is talking up his immigrant roots.
In a Democratic field where substantive differences can seem reed-thin, voters are especially attuned to the candidates' passion and message.
Leaving church on Sunday, Ms. Khan said Mr. Thompson's thoughtfulness ''pushed me closer to saying 'Hmm, now it's a tossup between him and Bill de Blasio, because Bill de Blasio is very outspoken, too.' ''
