New form can ensure end-of-life wishes
I read with interest the opinion piece by Ellen Goodman about Nelson Mandela and her call for end-of-life conversations before they are needed. Many people around the country and in Illinois also agree with her and have been working to help people identify their power of attorney for health care and make their wishes known for many years.
In March, Illinois released a new form to be used by critically ill people to say what treatments that they do and do not want, should their condition become life-threatening. Some people are adamant that they do not want a feeding tube or artificial resuscitation, while others expect that every effort will be taken to keep them alive as long as possible. 
The new Illinois Advance Directive DNR/POLST form is completed with the patient's physician, and provides a way for the patient to understand and communicate what they want in a way that all health providers will understand. POLST (Physician Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment) is a type of directive that is used in many states, and has been shown to ensure that a person's wishes are honored. The POLST form is an important tool people can use to communicate their wishes, and more information is available at http://www.cecc.info.
However, nothing takes the place of a clear and honest conversation. Far from being morbid, these conversations can support families in coming together to celebrate the life of their loved one rather than fighting over a feeding tube. As Ms. Goodman states, everyone should have a conversation with their loved ones about their feelings with regard to end-of-life care, and how they would like to be remembered. Isn't that the legacy that everyone would want to have?
Shelly Ebbert
Director of Foundation and External Relations
Rainbow Hospice and Palliative Care
Mount Prospect
Border still porous; update the numbers
For a very long time now, the estimate of 11 million illegal immigrants having crossed our border has been the accepted number.
Our border was not and is not closed, and there is no evidence that the illegals have stopped coming. So, isn't it time that the number be updated?
In addition, I feel estimating the number is ridiculous because how does one count the number of illegals not seen crossing?
Clifford Salzmann
Arlington Heights
Coverage of trial was lopsided
I've seldom seen such a lopsided coverage of a story by the news media as has taken place regarding the George Zimmerman/Trayvon Martin case. Martin was consistently portrayed as an innocent youngster by repeatedly publishing a photo taken when he was 14 years old while in fact he was actually now larger than Zimmerman. Meanwhile Zimmerman was consistently portrayed as a racist vigilante who was looking for trouble. Zimmerman was actually an authorized volunteer night watchman responding to the crime problem in his gated community.
Another oft-repeated criticism was his failure to obey the request of the police dispatcher "to stop following the suspect." Zimmerman was doing his job of seeing what Martin was up to and was under no obligation to obey the police dispatcher. According to the evidence presented at the trial, Martin objected to being followed, turned around and attacked Zimmerman, knocked him down and was slamming his head against the sidewalk when Zimmerman shot him. I guess if Zimmerman had only just let Martin bash his brains out, all this controversy could have been avoided.
John Hurley
Palatine
