Defense of Karkoc is simply an insult
I'm responding to William Hubbell's letter to the editor, "Karkoc a victim of the Nazi hunters."
Curiously, Hubbell never mentions that the organizations to which Michael Karkoc belonged were sponsored by the SS, not the regular German Army.
The SS was responsible for the lion's share of atrocities committed by the Nazis, including the mass murder of defenseless, innocent men, women and children. Nor does he mention that the organizations that The Associated Press wrote Karkoc helped organize or belonged to did much of their sponsors' dirty work. 
Instead, Hubbell cynically tries to portray Karkoc as some kind of anti-communist freedom fighter. He then cleverly attempts to take our focus away from the seriousness of Karkoc's deeds by bringing our country's perceived misdeeds into view.
It's true the United States does not have a spotless human rights record, but to equate America's history with those who perpetrated the worst genocide ever is akin to a defense attorney defending a murderer by claiming that the prosecutor, himself, has racked up two parking violations.
It's a perfidious apology and an insult to our intelligence.
Steve Wiesenthal
Walnut Creek Note: Steve Wiesenthal is not affiliated with the Simon Wiesenthal Center.
Florida verdict was about race
Paraphrasing Charles Dickens: "If the law supposes (George Zimmerman wasn't responsible, then) the law is a ass, a idiot."
Zimmerman's jury found him "not guilty," but racism interprets that verdict to mean "innocent" in Trayvon Martin's wrongful death.
Florida has a long history of incorrectly acquitting white-on-black crime. Racism holds Martin, the victim of violence, to a higher standard of conduct than his aggressor. This court contradicted reality when purporting this trial "wasn't about race."
Florida law failed Martin -- through racially charged bias -- when an armed white adult was presumed justified in shooting an unarmed black juvenile, when it should've pondered the legal probability Martin lawfully stood his ground, too.
Racists employ specious speculation, putting Martin on trial by presuming he "started the fight" and "should've retreated" yet ironically declare Zimmerman had no such obligation despite being implored to stand down.
The tangible evil triggering this tragedy is the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) promulgated, legally flawed and unequally applied sophistry called "stand your ground," which enables and encourages needless violence and must be repealed.
Ed Chainey
Richmond
California GOP must take heed
The immigration system of the United States is, without question, in dire need of reform, and now is the time for that reform.
Despite past opposition to such measures, the Republican Party should, and must, lead the campaign to resolve this nation's immigration challenges.
Republicans ought to take this charge because it is economically prudent and deeply humanistic, not because it will lead to an electoral victory in 2014. If, in the act of bettering the nation, Latino voters embrace the Republican Party, then that would be a welcome side-effect of proper governance.
Foremost, the Republican leaders from California must again demonstrate they understand this nation, its challenges and its people. By responsibly reforming immigration policy, those men and women will do so.
Hayden Padgett
Danville
The arrogance of red-light runners
Can someone please explain to me the sheer audacity of red-light runners?
I'm not talking about barely making it through the intersection before the light changes, I'm talking about deliberately driving through a light that has been red so long it's beginning to turn purple.
Every morning on the way to work, at a certain intersection, when our light turns green, there are at least two, three and sometimes four cars still turning left on their red arrow.
Feel free to endanger yourselves, oh arrogant ones, but leave the rest of us out of it.
Cindy Barnett
Concord
