When Barack Obama won elections in 2008 to become the first black president of the United States, hopes were running high that the country had reached a milestone in race relations.
WASHINGTON: When Barack Obama won elections in 2008 to become the first black president of the United States, hopes were running high that the country had reached a milestone in race relations. Optimistic pundits began talking about a "post-racial" society. Polls showed that wide majorities expected racial attitudes to change for the better. Did they?
The answer is no, or not much, judging from reaction to the verdict in a murder trial in Florida that drew national and international attention. The case involved an unarmed black teenager, Trayvon Martin, who was shot dead by a neighborhood watch captain, George Zimmerman, who said he had acted in self-defense. "Not guilty" sparked demonstrations across the country by people who thought justice had failed Martin because of his color. The verdict unleashed a tsunami of tweets - 4.5 million within the first 24 hours - condemning or applauding the jury's decision. 
Two national polls showed a huge racial divide over the outcome of the trial, followed breathlessly by U.S. TV networks. More than 80 percent of black Americans said they were dissatisfied with the verdict, roughly half of whites approved of it. The sharply conflicting views brought to mind the sensational trial of O.J. Simpson, the black football star accused of murdering his white girlfriend and an acquaintance of hers in 1994. The jury found him not guilty. The verdict, broadcast live, graphically illustrated the black-white perception gulf. Blacks cheered, whites looked shocked.
Obama's election in 2008, and again in 2012, showed that a black American can rise to the country's highest office, evidence that the country is not as racist as some of its critics contend. The president has largely stayed away from the thorny subject of race but he tackled the issue with unusual and very personal remarks after a turbulent week in the wake of the Florida verdict. Making an unannounced appearance in the White House briefing room, he brought up a subject that is often missing from American debates about race.
There is a simple reason why black Americans and white Americans (and Latinos) have such starkly different views on how much of a role race plays in how people are treated - most blacks and Latinos have had personal experience of racist prejudice. Most whites have not.
African-Americans, Obama said, shared a set of experiences and a history that shaped their views.
"There are very few African-American men in this country who haven't had the experience of being followed when they were shopping in a department store. That includes me. And there are very few African-American men who haven't had the experience of walking across the street and hearing the locks click on the doors of cars ... There are very few African-Americans who haven't had the experience of getting on an elevator and a woman clutching her purse nervously and holding her breath until she had a chance to get off. That happens often."
In other words, blacks arouse fear and suspicion, which is what the prosecution in the Florida case saw as the reason for Zimmerman to pursue the black teenager as he was walking in a predominantly white neighborhood. Unlike some of the black leaders who insist that justice failed in Florida, Obama touched on one of the reasons why young black men inspire fear in many whites: crime. "African-American young men are disproportionately involved in the criminal justice system ... they are disproportionately both victims and perpetrators of violence."
Murder, for example, is the leading cause of death for black men aged 15 to 34, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control.
There is no dispute over the disproportion Obama mentioned - the numbers are well known and often cited: black Americans account for roughly 13 percent of the population and for 40 percent of the male inmates in the country's jails and prisons. Part of this disparity, experts say, stems from unequal treatment by the police and the criminal justice system.
The numbers that most starkly highlight the lack of equal treatment come from the enforcement of drug laws. Blacks and whites engage in drug offences at roughly equivalent rates, according to government statistics, but African-Americans are almost four times more likely to be arrested for marijuana possession than whites, according to federal data crunched by the American Civil Liberties Union.
Such accounts deepen the conviction of many black Americans that they face an institutionalized bias that is difficult to overcome and goes beyond headline-making cases such as the Florida trial. Statistics show that this not merely a matter of perceptions.
A report in June by the Housing and Urban Development Department, for example, spoke volumes about discrimination that has changed in tone but not much in substance. "Fewer minorities today may be getting the door slammed into their faces, but we continue to see evidence of housing discrimination that can limit a family's housing, economic and educational opportunities," said HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan.
The HUD survey, conducted every 10 years, looked at 28 cities across the United States and found that real estate agents showed minority [read: black] families fewer homes than white families and quoted them higher costs and security deposits.
Obama ended his remarks on race on an optimistic note. "I don't want us to lose sight that things are getting better. Each successive generation seems to be making progress in changing attitudes when it comes to race."
Wishful thinking?
Check back in a generation.
Bernd Debusmann is a former World Affairs columnist for Reuters. This article was written exclusively for The Daily Star.
