ENGLEWOOD - Fire Chief Gerald Marion is urging council members to  boycott the state of Florida, as well other states that have "Stand  Your Ground" laws, in light of last week's acquittal of George  Zimmerman. 
  "I'm here in uniform tonight and I'm telling you this uniform, my  position, [and even] if I was a Nobel Prize winning physicist,  would not protect me in these states," said Marion at the July 16  city council meeting. "All I have to do is look at someone the  wrong way and I can be shot and killed and there will be no  retribution." 
    Trayvon Martin, 17, of Florida, was shot dead by Zimmerman, a  Hispanic neighborhood watch volunteer, last year after he allegedly  became suspicious of the black unarmed teen. Martin's family  alleged that their son became a victim of racial profiling while  Zimmerman claimed self defense. While Zimmerman's defense did not  invoke "Stand Your Ground" during the trial, Judge Debra Nelson  used language from the law in her instruction to the jury.  
    Marion said "Stand Your Ground" laws - which states a person can  use justifiably self defense if they are threatened without the  duty to retreat - greatly impact minorities, especially those of  the African-American community. Approximately 30 states, including  Florida, have some form of Stand Your Ground on the books. 
    "I don't want to be a target anymore," said Marion. "I don't want  my children or my grandchildren to be a target anymore. I want  someone to help and that has to start with us." 
    Marion pledged to not spend a single taxpayer dollar to purchases  good or services from Florida, as much as it is in his power. 
    The Englewood Fire Department currently purchases its fire trucks  from a Florida company, said Marion. Although one department itself  may not make a difference, Marion urged his colleagues across the  country to follow suit. 
    "One of my colleagues asked me 'what's the big deal; what  difference is it going to make,' " said Marion. "But I know if I  don't do anything, nothing will happen. At least if I try, I can go  to sleep at night with a clear conscious." 
    Crystal Brown, a city resident, thanked Marion for his comments at  the July 16 meeting and urged the council to reconsider a recent  contract with a Florida company that was approved two months ago. 
    On May 28, the city council approved a two-year contract with  Florida-based Federal Property Registration Corporation (FPRC) to  create an online registry of vacant properties throughout the city. 
    Bergen County NAACP President Anthony Cureton was in agreement with  Marion's sentiments, but felt the community needed to take more  steps in getting legislators in the assembly and senate to step  forward and stand with the NAACP with issues that affect the  African-American community. 
    "People may close their eyes to racism, but [this] shows it  exists," said Cureton. "The concept of an African-American man  walking to a store [who is then] followed, that's the true issue  that's affecting everyone. That's a national issue that has to be  talked about." 
    Rev. Vernon Walton of Mount Calvary Baptist Church, who organized a  "Hoodie Sunday" silent march last March that drew more than 500  Bergen County residents to Englewood to show solidarity with  Martin, said the Zimmerman verdict made the nation more sensitive  to "Stand Your Ground" laws. 
    Walton said he could certainly support Marion's sentiments, but the  community at large also needed to look at the other people and  companies that supported the Zimmerman defense team throughout the  trial. 
    "I heard a number of people ask for some way we can make our voices  heard," said Walton. "One of the fastest ways [one could do this]  is through the pockets." 
    Walton believed the situation was also a good learning opportunity  for citizens to become more engaged in what's happening on a  federal level and encourage more people to participate in the  upcoming senate election. 
    "The politics are local, but it does trickle down," said Walton.  "We also have to help young people to understand the impact and  consequences of this verdict." 
    Ward 2 Councilman Michael Cohen said while he agrees with Marion in  theory, he questioned the practical aspect of not buying from the  30-something states with "Stand Your Ground" laws. 
    "I would say generally speaking my preference is to try to buy  local in Bergen County," said Cohen. 
    Not only would Ward 3 Councilman Eugene Skurnick like to see a  resolution from the council condemning the Zimmerman case, but said  he would also like to see a resolution condemning local Bergen  County towns for recent shootings of unarmed individuals. 
    Ward 1 Councilman Marc Forman, who did not comment on Marion's  statement, said the "Stand Your Ground" laws are "appalling." 
