BUNNELL -- Undaunted by a torrential afternoon rain, the protesters kept moving. The Walk for Dignity began Monday in Jacksonville and 30 or so participants weren't going to let Mother Nature slow their efforts. They spent Monday night in St. Augustine before making their way through Flagler County on Tuesday. 
The protesters say they are addressing the verdict in the George Zimmerman trial earlier this month and hope to shed more light on the conviction of Marissa Alexander, who fired a warning shot at her husband, whom she alleged had subjected her to constant physical abuse.
Many see Alexander, who is black, as someone who was more justified to argue a stand-your-ground defense than Zimmerman, who shot and killed Trayvon Martin, a black teenager, in a Sanford neighborhood last year. Zimmerman was acquitted of second-degree murder while Alexander is serving a 20-year prison sentence.
The six-day cross-counties protest -- comprised of residents from various Southern states including Florida -- began in Jacksonville and will culminate with an assembly Saturday in Sanford, organizers say. The participants spent Tuesday night at Zion Baptist Church of Palm Coast.
"I was hoping for some way to contribute and to give back to this effort," said Rev. Charlene Cothran, pastor at Zion.
The plan for those taking part in the Walk for Dignity is to spend Wednesday night in Flagler Beach, walk Thursday into Volusia and find a place to stay that night in the Daytona Beach area.
By Friday night, the walkers hope to arrive at Hickory Avenue Church of God in Sanford, wake up the following morning and take part in a daylong rally.
The walkers' persistence didn't go unnoticed by passers-by Tuesday. One woman entered a gas station in St. Augustine and walked out cradling bottles of water, handing them out to the protesters.
Aleta Alston-Toure, one of the organizers, said their efforts have generated appreciation and admiration. The hot, muggy and rainy conditions have actually inspired the protesters to keep going.
Their job, she said, is to bring to light the need for more social justice.
Alston-Toure said the walkers mapped out a route to take but they're relying on the good will of others to provide places to stay. They also hope to find a place to shower. Most importantly, they want to spread the word of their cause and spur more support.
"We're hoping this just keeps getting bigger and bigger as we go," she said.
Organizers said Saturday's rally will be streamed live online at southtosouth.org.
