A Hackensack man convicted of kidnapping and raping a 13-year-old  girl while he was on parole for another child-sex conviction was  sentenced Thursday to life plus 24 years in prison.  
    "This is the third time this defendant has preyed on young girls,"  state Superior Court Judge James Guida said of Ivan McKinney. "This  defendant needs to be removed from society."  
  McKinney earlier had made an emotional statement saying he  maintained his innocence.   
    "I stand before this court today as a man of journey," McKinney  said at his sentencing in Hackensack. "I am not afraid of what is  going to happen, because I am a man on a journey."  
    After the sentencing, he began screaming, "I am TrayvonMartin! I  am TrayvonMartin!" and was hurried out of the courtroom by  sheriff's officers.  
    Catherine Fantuzzi, an assistant Bergen County prosecutor,  described McKinney at his sentencing as "a depraved, opportunistic,  recidivist rapist."  
    "It's not every day that a prosecutor requests a sentence of life  in prison for a case that doesn't involve a homicide," she said,  noting that McKinney victimized a total of six women in his three  convictions in the last five years.  
    "The only way to truly protect society is to put him in prison for  the rest of his life," she said.  
    Prosecutors said McKinney, 40, had been out of prison for just six  months and was already on parole for another child-sex conviction  in February 2011 when he befriended two Clifton girls, ages 13 and  15, in Passaic. Despite a parole condition that prohibited him from  being alone with children, he took the girls to his Hackensack  apartment on two occasions and gave them drugs and alcohol until  they passed out, prosecutors said.  
    The first encounter was a "dry run" to see how the girls would  respond, said Fantuzzi.  
    During the second encounter, McKinney had sex with the girls,  prosecutors said.  
    A jury later found him guilty of kidnapping and sexually assaulting  the 13-year-old girl but acquitted him of the kidnapping and sexual  assault of the other girl. The jury also found him guilty of  several counts of child endangerment and possession of drugs with  intent to distribute.  
    Having been convicted of sexual assault and child abuse in 2008 and  2010, McKinney was on lifetime parole at the time.  
    He must serve 54 years before he is eligible for parole.  
    McKinney comes from a "solid" family of churchgoers, said his  attorney, Jeff Steinfeld. Nearly a dozen relatives, including  McKinney's parents, attended the sentencing.  
    Steinfeld has said his client's conviction will be challenged on  appeal on several grounds. He said investigators obtained DNA  evidence, but that it pointed to a male other than McKinney. He  also said the alleged victims made inconsistent statements, and  that some of the jurors were sleeping during McKinney's trial.  Steinfeld additionally argued that McKinney should not be subjected  to a sentence longer than that given to murder convicts.  
    "The court's sentence is but one of a multiplicity of significant  legal issues that will be vigorously pursued on appeal," Steinfeld  said.  
    A state law allows a judge to impose an extended term of  imprisonment -- New Jersey's version of a three-strikes law -- on  certain repeat offenders. Sex offenders who commit kidnapping,  sexual assault or child endangerment while on parole for another  sex offense fall into that category.  
    Email: markos@northjersey.com
