THE ONLY minority on the all-female jury in the TrayvonMartin case says George Zimmerman "got away with murder" when he fatally shot the black 17-year-old. 
But the juror, a 36-year-old mother of eight who moved to Florida from Chicago five months before she was selected for the trial, says the panel had no choice but to acquit Zimmerman, based on the law and evidence.
"George Zimmerman got away with murder," said the juror. "But you can't get away from God. And at the end of the day, (Zimmerman is) going to have a lot of questions and answers he has to deal with."
The juror, who is of Puerto Rican descent and identified herself only by her first name, Maddy, shared her regrets during a television interview with Robin Roberts that will air in full on ABC's "Good Morning America" Friday. Excerpts were shown on ABC programs Thursday.
Maddy told Roberts she can't sleep at night because she is consumed by thoughts of Trayvon, who was shot to death while walking home from a convenience store in Sanford, Fla., last year.
"It's hard for me to sleep, it's hard for me to eat because I feel I was forcefully included in TrayvonMartin's death," said the juror, who works as a nursing assistant. "And as I carry him on my back, I'm hurting as much as TrayvonMartin's mother because there's no way that any mother should feel that pain," Maddy added.
Her words echoed the anguish vented across the country after the July 13 verdict sparked an emotional debate on race and Florida's "Stand Your Ground" self-defense law that saw President Obama chime in.
Maddy said that when the jury, which included five mothers, began deliberations, she was ready to convict Zimmerman of second-degree murder, which could have put him behind bars for life. "I was the juror that was going to give them the hung jury," she insisted. "I fought to the end."
But after nine hours of reviewing evidence, Maddy decided the jury had to let the neighborhood watchman walk free, she said.
"You can't put the man in jail, even though in our hearts we felt he was guilty," said the angst-ridden woman, known during the trial as Juror B29. "But we had to grab our hearts and put it aside and look at the evidence."
The question at the heart of the case was whether Zimmerman, 29, acted in self-defense because he thought his life was in danger - thereby bringing the shooting under the parameters of Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law.
"That's where I felt confused," Maddy told Roberts. "But as the law was read to me, if you have no proof that he killed him intentionally, you can't say he's guilty."
Maddy's approach contrasted sharply with that of Juror B37, who was first to speak out. That panelist, a white woman interviewed anonymously on CNN, expressed sympathy for Zimmerman and said Trayvon was partly responsible for his own death.
Both Maddy and Juror B37 said the case was never about race.
