Councilman fails in his elected duties  
    Regarding "Councilman's video link is cut" (Page A-1, July 19):  
  What's next? What else is slipping under Paterson's political radar  screen?   
    Reading this front-page account of reasons given by Paterson  Councilman Julio Tavarez for his many absences at official meetings  of the Paterson City Council, I have to say I was struck by the  sheer brazenness exhibited by the councilman. He chalks up his  absences as being due to the fact that he was needed in Ohio, where  he is serving an internship while studying for a master's degree in  business administration.  
    Most positively amazing was Tavarez's attempted use at a recent  meeting of teleconferencing instead of actually being present in  his seat to vote and add to discussion on issues before the  council. That attempt resulted in an uproar and a stop was put to  it. Yet with all his "invisible man" practice, Tavarez was able to  fly in at a previous meeting to cast a vote for council president,  and was promptly rewarded with the chairmanship of the community  development and public works committees.  
    The fact that Tavarez is being well-paid for these missed meetings  seems cause for a review, and in my mind falls under the category  of dereliction of duty by an elected public official. The question  that needs an answer is, who is representing Tavarez's 5th Ward  while he is away?  
    Tom Watterson  
    Boonton  
    The writer was a longtime Paterson resident.  
Misconceptions about Zimmerman case  
    I have read several articles about the George Zimmerman case in the  Herald News Opinion section and have also been watching the talk  shows and have seen several people protesting the not-guilty  verdict. I've heard so many inaccurate statements and varying  opinions and after watching the trial from beginning to end, I want  to offer my perspective.  
    Zimmerman did not follow Trayvon Martin and did not profile him  because of his race. He observed him from his car and thought he  was acting suspiciously because he was walking very slowly through  this gated community.  
    I've heard people say that Martin was just walking home. In my  opinion he was not just walking home.  
    Zimmerman told the dispatcher that he lost sight of Martin and was  asked if he knew his location. Zimmerman, from what I can tell, at  some point exited the car but I don't believe Martin was racially  profiled.  
    It seems clear to me that Zimmerman did not follow him and did not  confront Martin.  
    It seems ridiculous to hear these protesters misquoting the  testimony from the trial saying Zimmerman got away with murder.  
    In my opinion, the way that Jesse Jackson, Eric Holder, President  Obama, Al Sharpton, the NAACP and many other protesters are acting  is disgraceful.  
    This country has ruined the life of George Zimmerman, and the  Martin family has lost a son.  
    If everyone knew the facts in this case they might speak and act  differently. In my view it was a case of self-defense.  
    Frank E. Theo  
    Little Falls
