Learning on the installment plan
 Oregon state officials have taken a bold step toward solving the tuition problem for students trying to attend public universities. With the state's new "Pay it Forward, Pay it Back" plan, approved this month, needy students will pay nothing while in school, and then only 3 percent of their income for the next two decades after getting a four-year degree. Those who attend for a shorter time would pay a prorated amount. Although this plan is in use in other countries, it has never been tried here. What a wonderful way to solve the high tuition costs at these universities. Let's hope educators and legislators in Pennsylvania take note. 
 Sy Levy, Plymouth Meeting 
 Thwart, deny, obstruct: Job done
 Republicans only seem to have a few items on their agenda: Make it as difficult as possible for President Obama to do his job; make it as difficult as possible for women to exercise their constitutional right to abortion; make life easy for wealthy friends in industry or commerce; and get reelected. As for good ideas for our country as a whole, they're nowhere to be found on the agenda.
 Robert Mezey, Philadelphia
 Sad reflections on a city mugging
 While I was walking home recently on a quiet residential block in Center City, 10 young, African American boys on bikes rode past. I thought nothing of it until two minutes later, when I was on the ground, with a bike on top of me, and a little boy looking as terrified as me trying to steal my belongings, fists raised. 
 I am 31 years old and five months pregnant with my first child. My husband and I are proud to raise our family in the diverse culture of the city, and have always stood against racial profiling. Over the past few months, our beliefs had been reinforced in light of the tragic situation involving George Zimmerman and Trayvon Martin. But as I am about to become a first-time mom, I am questioning so many of my beliefs.
 I'm not angry at the mugger; not even really scared. I'm just sad - sad that I'm about to raise a baby among people who would hurt a pregnant woman. I'm sad that I don't know how to teach my child that stereotypes aren't real when something like this happens. I'm sad that, in such a diverse city, the disparities of class and race are widening, not shrinking. And I'm most sad for the boy who knocked me over (and his friends who just stood there). With so much anger, so much hate, and a propensity to commit violence against me (and my giant belly), in what direction is his life heading? 
 Jennifer Lyons, Philadelphia
 Trouble starts on the home front
 No one will honestly address the heart of the problem: young black women having babies they can't afford ("Unity was Obama's goal," July 23). At the rate of 73 percent, black babies are born to single parents. So, many men grow up unsupervised and undisciplined, and become involved in the criminal justice system. Instead of pointing fingers in every other direction - or to the past for even more excuses - black leaders should address the real issue. That problem links all of the others.
 James Carr, Tabernacle
