Re: "All-out bid to contain spill", July 28.
This would be really alarming news but for the fact that Rayong's beaches are already so polluted that an oil spill will hardly be noticed. Mae Ramphung is the dumping ground for mountains of plastic bags, polystyrene, bottles, tins, cans, and detritus jettisoned by ships. I sometimes see the garbage trucks on the beach road, and would readily believe that they were making deliveries rather than collections.
Adding to this stinking mess, for the past three weeks the tides have been carrying in a brownish-green frothy slime that dries on the beach, leaving an odorous brown carpet. I do not know its origins or what it is, but suspect it is sewage effluent. 
Your report quotes Puchong Sarittichaikul, director of a local marine-resources preservation centre, as saying that, with winds coming towards Rayong, he was "concerned the slick could reach the beaches".
Why are the officials up in arms about an oil spill when for years they have blindly ignored the longer-term problem? Is it because this time they can point the finger at a corporate offender rather than their own mismanagement of Rayong's coastal resources?
David Brown
Rayong
Dumb idea for #124what purpose?
Re: "PM proposes reality show for brilliant beauties", July 26.
This article says Prime Minister Yingluck wants to start a reality show to prove that smart women are beautiful. The winner will be crowned "Smart Lady Thailand".
I am puzzled by the attempt to correlate brains with beauty. Beautiful women get more than enough attention in Thailand. It's time we paid some attention to the ugly ones. They are extremely disadvantaged, mainly because of the importance the Thai value system places on external appearance.
The writer Steve Rosse observed long ago that there are so many beautiful women in Thailand that ugly women have a really tough time competing. It follows logically that it's the ugly women who must be smartest, because they have to work so hard to compete. My husband Horace says that if he were an employer, and he wanted to hire a woman to actually do some work rather than just serve as an office ornament, he'd hire an ugly one every time.
Of course, in our politically correct world, it would be hurtful to call ugly people "ugly". We have to call them aesthetically challenged, looks-wise (ACL).
I doubt the new reality show will ever get off the ground. It is basically a stupid idea. But this is Thailand, where stupid ideas often gain more traction than they would anywhere else. If the show does get off the ground, I suggest that, in the interests of fairness, all women should be eligible to compete whether beautiful or not. And winning ought to be based on brains, not beauty. But I know how far that idea will get in Thailand.
Constance ACL Beasley
Bangkok
Wrong to cite TrayvonMartin case
Re: "Latest cause: White rights", Letters, July 28.
As someone who "casually" followed the fatal shooting of TrayvonMartin by George Zimmerman, I would like to point out a few undeniable facts:
Eric Bahrt was not present at the shooting scene. Only Zimmerman and the late Mr Martin were. So how could Mr Bahrt claim that he is "100 per cent certain there was not one shred of evidence that Zimmerman, who was found "not guilty" by a racially mixed jury, committed any crime"?
Martin's death could have been avoided had Zimmerman not stepped out of his car to approach Martin.
George Zimmerman is Hispanic, or at least multiracial, not white. Therefore, this case could never have been about "white rights".
Whether or not Mr Zimmerman should have been found guilty is another story. But my point is, Mr Bahrt, that you can fight all you want for white rights. Just don't use this particular case to back your agenda.
Andy Colmes
Bangkok
