PLEASE DON'T SHOOT ME
Satirist Andy Borowitz at The Borowitz Report: "Opponents of Florida's Stand Your Ground law are attempting to mobilize support for a new law called Don't Shoot Me for Absolutely No Reason. The proposed law, which faces major opposition in the Florida legislature, would make it illegal for people in the state to shoot each other for no reason whatsoever.
" 'Under the provisions of Don't Shoot Me for Absolutely No Reason, you will be required to have an actual reason for shooting someone,' said a spokesman for the measure, Harland Dorrinson. 'This will be a first in Florida.' 
"The controversial bill has already drawn the ire of the National Rifle Association, which issued a statement today saying that requiring someone to have a reason to shoot another person would violate the Second Amendment. 'If you force someone to have a reason to shoot someone, soon you will be taking away his right to shoot that person altogether,' the NRA said."
BLACK LEADERS DIMINISHED
Shelby Steele in The Wall Street Journal: "The verdict that declared George Zimmerman not guilty of murdering Trayvon Martin was a traumatic event for America's civil-rights establishment, and for many black elites ... When you have grown used to American institutions being so intimidated by the prospect of black wrath that they invent mushy ideas like 'diversity' and 'inclusiveness' simply to escape that wrath, then the crisp reading of the law that the Zimmerman jury displayed comes as a shock.
"On television in recent weeks you could see black leaders from every background congealing into a chorus of umbrage and complaint. But they weren't so much outraged at a horrible injustice as they were affronted by the disregard of their own authority. The jury effectively said to them, 'You won't call the tune here. We will work within the law.'
"Today's black leadership pretty much lives off the fumes of moral authority that linger from its glory days in the 1950s and '60s. The Zimmerman verdict lets us see this and feel a little embarrassed for them. Consider the pathos of a leadership that once transformed the nation now lusting for the conviction of the contrite and mortified George Zimmerman, as if a stint in prison for him would somehow assure more peace and security for black teenagers everywhere. This, despite the fact that nearly one black teenager a day is shot dead on the South Side of Chicago -- to name only one city -- by another black teenager."
PITTSBURGH, LOOKING GOOD
Regional economist Chris Briem at his Null Space blog looks at media coverage comparing Pittsburgh's resurgence with Detroit's demise. He posts a video of Mayor Luke Ravenstahl talking about Pittsburgh's "lessons for Detroit" on Bloomberg Television and writes: "You know, I believe Pittsburgh is getting more and more positive earned media out of Detroit's bankruptcy than we did from the whole G20 gig. Beyond the list of media mentions already, Bloomberg today gives lots of air to the Pittsburgh story."
POP GOES YOUR VOTE
Dahlia Lithwick at Slate on North Carolina's runaway GOP legislature: "The voter ID component of the bill is probably the most draconian in the nation. It cuts to seven the forms of permissible identification. If it passes, no county or municipal government or public employee IDs will be valid proof of voter identification. Nor will any photo ID issued by a public assistance agency or any student ID from any college.
"The new voter ID rules will hit African-American voters, women and Democrats hardest. The indispensable Ari Berman sums up the aggregate effect as follows: 'According to the state's own numbers, 316,000 registered voters don't have state-issued ID; 34 percent are African American and 55 percent are registered Democrats. Of the 138,000 voters without ID who cast a ballot in the 2012 election, 36 percent were African American and 59 percent registered Democrats.'
"And the scourge of voter fraud in North Carolina, at which the proposed law is directed? Between 2000 and 2010 there have been two cases of alleged voter impersonation. In that period three people also ate pop rocks and died."
