Mahwah - Township residents and religious leaders gathered for a  "peaceful demonstration" to remember TrayvonMartin, a 17-year-old  who was shot and killed more than a year ago in Florida, and George  Zimmerman, who over the weekend was cleared of all charges related  to the shooting. 
  "I am Trayvon," "Prayers for the Martin family," "Justice for  Trayvon" and "Trayvon could have been my son," were among the  messages on posters waved by a group of about 40 people who  convened at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, July 16, at Ridge Road and MacArthur  Boulevard before proceeding to the municipal building at 475  Corporate Drive to hold public prayers.  
    Organizer Pamela Davis, 25, a registered nurse who had lived in the  township for more than 20 years and recently moved to Hackensack,  said that immediately after the verdict was announced on Saturday,  July 13, "members of my church, community, and [former high] school  took to social media to express themselves." 
    "I went through the Mahwah school system and I know what it's like  to live in Mahwah and feel like you have no voice," Davis, a 2006  Mahwah High School graduate, said prior to the rally. 
    She said her "inspiration" for coordinating the hour-long event  came from reading the Facebook status of a fellow graduate, Jessie  Hewing, 19, which reflected feelings of "disappointment" and  "discouragement" after the verdict was announced. 
    "We grow up thinking if you live your life right, justice will  always prevail," Davis said. 
    "But the outcome of this case was discouraging." 
    She said she organized the event for members of the community to  express their feelings about the case in a "positive light, with  positive, healthy discussions." 
    Davis, who volunteers as a Sunday school teacher in the township at  Mt. Zion A.M.E. Church at 106 Grove St., was joined by members of  her church, former high school peers, and others in the rally,  which started with the group entering the corner 7-Eleven  convenience store one by one to purchase a bag of Skittles and a  bottle of iced tea - the same snacks Martin was said to have  purchases before being gunned down on his way home. 
    Hewing and Davis shared memories of walking to the corner 7-Eleven  to buy a bag of candy and a drink when they were in high school. 
    "Trayvon could have been any one of us," Davis said. 
    The group marched 1.5 miles to the front steps of the municipal  building, where Davis, Hewing and Pastor Kenneth Heyman of Mt. Zion  A.M.E. Church addressed the audience. 
    "I know what it's like to live as a black man in the suburbs and in  the inner city," said Hewing, who went through the Mahwah public  school system and graduated in 2012 from the high school. He said  he spent most of his summers visiting family in Columbus, Ohio,  where he now attends community college, working on an associate of  arts degree. 
    "I take value in my American heritage and my citizenship, but the  verdict made me question if America takes value in me," Hewing told  the quiet crowd. 
    "Whatever color you may be...you are somebody and you have to stand  up for what you feel is right," Heyman said when he took his turn  on the steps. "We're not angry; we're disappointed. 
    "We have to walk in unity. We have to be aware that there can be  unity in diversity."  
