Abortion's sweeping impact
TrayvonMartin was killed sometime after his 71st trimester and it was undoubtedly a tragic loss. But millions of babies are killed before or during their third trimester and the Left celebrates that as a "right". 
All the N.C. Republican legislature is trying to do is to keep North Carolina from becoming Debt-troit and its abortion clinics from becoming like Dr. Gosnell's. And for that they are vilified? If any "Moocher Monday" protesters don't like it here, I'll gladly buy them a one way ticket to Moretown. They need more wards of the state. By the way, protesters are OK with requiring a photo ID to get an abortion - but not to vote. (Do you think Dr. Gosnell will soon be glamorized on the cover of Rolling Stone?)
Eric Holder despises the stand your ground law so much that he urges everyone to exercise a duty to retreat when faced with imminent danger. Exactly where is a baby in the womb supposed to retreat to?
Memo to President Obama: If I had a daughter she'd look like Eve Carson and if you had two sons they'd look like the men who killed her. That has nothing to do with anything! Two human beings, Eve and Trayvon, lost their lives. By the way, one was a white Caucasian....
You also said Trayvon could have been you 35 years ago, but abortion has prevented millions of babies from becoming anybody 35 years from now.
Chris Felder
Durham
Fiscally responsible compromise doubtful
"[Obamacare is] a huge train wreck coming down."
That was Democratic Sen. Max Baucus, one of its chief architects, back in April. Three months later, with the employer mandate being delayed (forcing more workers to rely on federal subsidies to cope with overheating, profit-driven insurance company premiums on the health exchanges) ... the tracks are starting to separate. Once again, Democrats have proven their eternal ineptitude.
As for Republicans - with their multiple sabotage attempts, pointless repeals and repackaging of the status quo - they have underlined their cold-hearted indifference. A patient-centered health law replacement? Is that with or without crosshairs?
On behalf of the business community, Republicans have long opposed the employer mandate (though supported the individual mandate). Now that it has been delayed, they still can't find it within themselves to seize the moment and finally do something constructive on health care.
Bumbling Democrats should offer to make the employer mandate delay permanent. In return, Republicans should agree to allow a robust public option on the health exchanges, which would reduce the cost of - taxpayer funded - federal subsidies and provide real competition.
This fiscally responsible compromise could be achieved, provided both parties step up and sever themselves from the hips of special interests. Doubtful.
Lou Meyers
Durham
