As inspirational as it was to hear President Obama talk last week about how the criminal justice system is "disproportionately" unfair to blacks, he was ironically divisive even as he addressed the importance of people coming together. The president was right when he said our legal system discounts the value of black people's lives. During a recent visit to the state prison in Concord, I saw almost no white faces among the inmates at "The Farm," most of whom were doing time for drug crimes, even thoughstudies show that drug crimes are committed as often by whites as blacks.  
But the president didn't help himself by asking whether Trayvon Martin would have been acquitted if he had profiled and killed a white person. Martin was killed not for being black but to stop him from smashing George Zimmerman's head into cement. If the president really wanted to expose racism in our legal system, he should have criticized Zimmerman's lawyers for choosing only one person of color during the jury selection process. The U.S. Supreme Court has said the government can't discriminate - but the accused has leeway to be "racist" in criminal litigation; a constitutionally protected "right" that helped O.J. Simpson and Kobe Bryant walk free. It took guts for the president to blame his own legal system for perpetuating prejudice in the name of justice, but he should have noted that as long as lawyers on behalf of people like Simpson and Bryant can extract strategic value out of racism in a court of law, it won't matter one whit that the rest of us, as the president put it, learn to "squeeze" bias out of our minds when we walk down a sidewalk toward a group of young black men. Put another way, the ability to play the "race card" to the advantage of some blacks in criminal trials worsens the problem of racism for all blacks in legal proceedings and in larger society. If the president really wanted to rid the criminal justice system of racism, he could have condemned the gratuitous use of race as a legal tactic. And he could have proposed a revision of ethical standards for defense lawyers to deter them from engaging in the exploitation of any social prejudice for strategic gain. It's difficult enough not to internalize prejudice when certain "types" of individuals are overrepresented in the population of people who commit certain crimes. If a recent spate of home invasions in a particular neighborhood is committed at night by young black men in hoodies, it might be unfair to assume something sinister about the next kid who shows up at night in a hoodie, but it's asking a lot to expect people to feel no worry at all. 
The president says we should at least "check in" with ourselves to make sure we're being fair when we confront situations where racism might be present. I agree, but he should have added that prejudice isn't just a black vs. white problem and that we also need to "check in" before making biased assumptions about the credibility of rape victims, the drinking habits of the Irish, the intelligence of the disabled, etc. Three young women were recently rescued from 10 years of enslavement in chains in an Ohio basement where they were allegedly raped and tortured because they were female, but President Obama has said not a word publicly about the women's civil rights or the fact that they were targeted for inhumane atrocities based on gender. His silence implies that some people's civil rights are more important than others'. This not only undermines the integrity of the president's point about our nation's need for unity, but also pits us against each other in the hierarchy of "isms." Such selectively applied leadership skills leave many people wondering whether the president's otherwise inspirational speech was not so much profound as political.
