Freedom is a loaded word, one with so many definitions, nuances and interpretations. Over the centuries the quest for freedom has been the cause of much suffering and much rejoicing. Thousands have died fighting for it or protecting it.
In his 1859 work On Liberty, John Stuart Mill examines "the nature and limits of the power which can be legitimately exercised by society over the individual." In other words, what freedoms can individuals consider rightfully theirs to enjoy? He points out that in ancient times liberty was protection against political tyrants and " ... the only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilized community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others." He asserts the vital role of the press as one of the defences against "corrupt or tyrannical government." I don't think we can argue against any of these premises since they are the foundation of modern democracies.
In 1948 the United Nations issued the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which proclaimed: "recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world." The 30 Articles include the right to education, freedom of thought and religion and prohibition of the slave trade. 
The Canadian Bill of Rights, passed in 1960, echoes the basic tenets of the UN Declaration and assures all Canadians of the following basic rights:
The right of the individual to life, liberty, security of the person and enjoyment of property, and the right not to be deprived thereof except by due process of law;
The right to equality before the law and the protection of the law;
Freedom of religion;
Freedom of speech;
Freedom of assembly and association;
Freedom of the press.
In addition, anyone arrested or detained is presumed innocent until proven guilty and must not be subjected to cruel and unusual treatment or punishment. The rights to have a fair hearing and retain counsel are also guaranteed.
The first 10 Amendments of the American Constitution that were passed in 1789 are called the country's Bill of Rights. The rights of the individual such as freedom of speech, religion and the press are enshrined in these Amendments.
It would seem that there is a consensus among nations that are signatories to the declaration that freedom in its many manifestations is an inherent right of all peoples. Yet we do not have to look far to see that the struggle for freedom with dignity is far from over.
In Canada, demonstrators' right to freedom of assembly certainly was violated during the G20 Summit in Toronto in 2011. Ashley Smith certainly was subjected to cruel and unusual treatment and punishment during her incarceration. Surely mercy and compassion should have triumphed over "justice."
Reports of human trafficking appear all too often in the media. Who would have thought that slavery would be an issue in 2013?
The United Nations' stand on the right to education has found a worthy champion in a young Pakistani woman named Malala Yousafzai who suffered a bullet wound to the head for her outspoken advocacy of education for girls. Unfortunately, her case is not unusual since there are still many countries in the world that deny their citizens the right to free speech and assembly. Chinese, Cuban and Russian prisons house political dissidents who have been imprisoned without trial or with a sham trial with a predetermined verdict.
Nelson Mandela and Martin Luther King Jr. were fierce champions for their people's fight for freedom. Mandela persevered and eventually apartheid was overthrown in South Africa. In the U.S., the recent verdict in the Trayvon Martin case demonstrates that "equality before the law" is not yet fully in place.
From these few examples we can infer that pursuit of freedom has had an uneven journey through human history. The story still is being written, but there is cause for hope and optimism. We are a "global village," to use Marshall McLuhan's term, in the sense that we know instantly through the media when our rights and freedoms are threatened. Protests are immediate, often sparked by the social media that are quick to reveal misdeeds. It is hard to hide from scrutiny these days with all the camera phones ready to snap into action. If they don't capture the moment, then CCTV cameras will. Who knew that such invasive gadgets could be a force for good?
