July 25--A history that doesn't go away.
President Barack Obama used those words to describe the lens through which many black Americans are viewing the fallout after a Florida jury found George Zimmerman not guilty of murdering 17-year-old Trayvon Martin.
Obama's remarks last Friday were cool, calm and collected -- a refreshing difference from the ranting and raving of many of the talking heads and protesters taking over the airwaves and town squares across the nation.
He didn't pass judgment during the unscripted, nearly 20 minute speech, but he managed to both reach out to the black community and remind us all that feelings of racial bias still linger in our society.
By telling the nation that he too has been followed while shopping, heard locks click on nearby car doors and seen women next to him in elevators clutching their purses and holding their breath, Obama sent a valuable message to Americans of all races.
The remarks first served as a reminder that even well-intentioned people -- who would never for a moment consider themselves racist -- can open old wounds by letting historical stereotypes, either consciously or not, influence their decisions.
But more importantly, the president reached out to millions of black boys and young men who were born into a world that foisted this historical context upon them.
When Obama said Martin could have been him 35 years ago, he wasn't just reflecting on the lack of progress we've made in race relations over the past few decades.
He was demonstrating that despite the influence the painful aspects of our nation's history still has on our society, young minority Americans do have reason to move forward and fight for their beliefs. His own career is proof of that.
Not everyone, the board included, agrees with all the decisions Obama has made so far during his presidency. But we applaud his thoughtful, candid take on an issue that deep down isn't just about one young man's untimely death.
We need less debate and more dialogue, and Obama's remarks served as the ideal conversation starter.
___ (c)2013 the Moscow-Pullman Daily News (Moscow, Idaho) Visit the Moscow-Pullman Daily News (Moscow, Idaho) at www.dnews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
