When Howard Reed heard about what happened to 17-year-old TrayvonMartin in February 2012, it brought back some vivid and emotional memories.
Reed, an African American associate minister at Santa Ana's Second Baptist Church, shared those memories earlier this week.
"That could have been me," a tearful Moore told the 200-plus attendees at an NAACP-sponsored town hall meeting at Irvine's Christ Our Redeemer AME Church on Tuesday night.  
Moore's words echoed those spoken by President Barack Obama last week following the not-guilty verdict in the George Zimmerman trial. Zimmerman was acquitted of all charges in the 2012 shooting death of Martin in Sanford, Fla., while Zimmerman was on a local Neighborhood Watch patrol. The case has ignited controversy over racial profiling. 
In the early 1980s, while on summer vacation in Chicago, Moore said he was stopped at gunpoint by police on his way home from a laundromat. He said the officers used racial slurs in telling him he fit the description of a crime suspect. But after the victim told police Moore was the wrong man, he was let go. Police left him to walk several miles to his home, at night.
Filled with rage, Moore said his only alternative to violence was to ask God to take away the anger he felt for having been racially profiled, just as TrayvonMartin was. 
The sanctuary at Christ Our Redeemer's Church filled with stories similar to Moore's, and people of all races and genders shared them, sometimes tearfully. Some even offered solutions to race-related problems.
And although the meeting took place in Irvine - considered by most standards to be a safe community - some residents warned that what happened to TrayvonMartin isn't limited to specific neighborhoods.
"I have an 8-year-old son and I work very hard so I don't have to live in the hood," said Irvine resident Darren Moore. "Irvine's a good neighborhood and a good community. But what happened to Trayvon can happen here. It can happen anywhere."
Irvine police spokeswoman Julia Engen said the city does not have a program where citizens are involved in any kind of crime-fighting capacity. There are senior volunteers who assist police in various ways, but none are armed, Engen said. 
Moore said a solution to race relations in America may be as simple as observing the innocence of children. "My son's best friend is white," he said. "And I love to watch them play because they don't know anything about race. They're just having fun. I would like to see our society get to a place where we think like kids, when race isn't an issue."
Donald Craig, president of the Orange County branch of the NAACP, said that it is important to move forward after the trial, focusing on the positive and making certain that people of all races stay educated. Most important, he said, they need to vote and make their voices heard.
"We can't do anything about what's already happened," he said. But he said it was important to examine some of the laws that came into play that night in Florida, specifically the "stand your ground" law, a law in some jurisdictions in the United States allowing citizens to defend themselves - sometimes with deadly force - when faced with a dangerous confrontation.
