Zimmerman/Martin case missing common sense
What is so important a week after the Zimmerman/Martin case, that news programs and commentators have to sit and debate the case over and over again?
Our justice system went to court with both sides and both sides presented their evidence, or lack thereof, and the case was adjudicated by Florida law.
The DOJ is now going after civil rights violations all because black Americans are crying injustice. We have the Congressional Black Caucus screaming and pushing for an investigation; we have a president sticking his business into the outcome and being wishy-washy about what happened. Give me a break. 
The problem has been Monday morning quarterbacked so much we have all lost sight of several things.
1) There was a fight and someone made first contact and was wrong.
2) Someone overstepped his volunteer position and didn't do what he was told not to do or what he was trained to do.
Had both parties done what was common sense there would have been no fight and death. Had Mr. Martin used his cell to call the police and walked home he would be alive today and had Zimmerman just called the police with a description and last location there would have been no shooting.
Final point -- where is the common sense and where are the parents of these children that take these situations into their own hands?
-- David Irvine, Upland
Subconscious abuzz with private thoughts
There are those who refuse to accept the injustice in the Trayvon murder trial. It annoys them. They swat away at their subconscious like a fly buzzing about their person.
Like the fly, they want questions to go away. Deep inside where they think private thoughts, they know.
All of us have preconceived perceptions. I used to picture a gay man as weak. With the coming out of several gay sports superstars, I now know this is wrong.
I remember the icon of the Mexican lazily sleeping under the palm tree with his sombrero and wide brim hat. If you have ever lugged a 50-pound sack of oranges around all day to make minimum wage for your family, you know that image is false.
That the Poles are stupid or the Irish are drunks is as wrong as the notion that our laws are equally applied.
I have a family member who has been stopped twice in the state of Arizona. He is a Mexican-American. There was no citation, no question, no other reason for the stop. His response was, "They're only doing their job."
My family member's ignorance of the Constitution notwithstanding, these incidents highlight the core of the belief of conservative, white Americans. You must look, act and support their view of America or you are not American.
For far too long, white progressives, minorities, gays, women and those who worship a different God have tried to blend into the conservative's color of America. That is the other fly that buzzes around the dung-pile verdict of the TrayvonMartin murder trial.
-- Felix Sepulveda, San Bernardino
Coward is as coward does
In a July 16 letter to the editor, a reader from Chino wrote that a police officer was "a callous coward" over the shooting of a vicious dog at the scene of an arrest.
Since this reader's daddy didn't teach that reader this life lesson ... if you're not willing to call a man a coward to his face, that makes you one.
-- Mike Macias, Upland
