Last Sunday's story on Florida Blue's proposal to become a mutual insurance holding company ("Nonprofit insurer pays millions to 14 executives") gave short shift to the organization's 70-year track record of innovation, community leadership and commitment to Floridians.
The article focused on the improbable risks associated with the often-used holding company structure without equal review of the many benefits Floridians would see with reorganization. As Florida Blue explains, restructuring would give the company more flexibility to compete with for-profit insurers and to offer new products, making health coverage more affordable. Other insurance companies have reorganized in a similar fashion.
The Affordable Care Act has drastically changed the health care equation, placing new requirements and rules on all of us, and it seems only logical that insurers like Florida Blue should be allowed to adapt to this new reality. A review of the company's proposal shows that while its structure would change, its fundamental mission would endure; it would continue to operate as a not-for-profit, policyholder-owned organization focused on helping people and communities achieve better health. 
Its insurance operations would continue under the oversight of the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, and we would be wise to allow that body to complete its review of the application in an open environment. Florida Blue has stated that it would not change its policyholders' rights, and that its application includes an evaluation of certain risks only because regulators require a "worst-case scenario" assessment.
After decades of serving those most in need in our state, and after proving their commitment to our community through their donations of time and resources -- something I have witnessed firsthand -- Florida Blue has earned the right to have its proposal reviewed fairly.
TONY ARGIZ
Miami
Editor's note: Tony Argiz is chairman and CEO of the accounting firm Morrison, Brown, Argiz & Farra. Florida Blue is the company's insurance carrier. Mr. Argiz is a former board chairman of United Way of Miami-Dade and the Orange Bowl Committee, and is the current chairman of the Greater Miami Chamber of Commerce.
Premiums making executives rich
Your articles on Florida Blue make be blue. To think that the monthly premiums I pay to the company for my secondary medical coverage -- we are retired and also pay for Medicare -- go to pay million-dollar salaries and to politicians ($4.8 million in 2012) is outrageous.
What if these extravagant expenditures were used for medical research, paying for actual medical costs, or, heaven forbid, to help lower premiums? Where do these "executives" and regulatory officials find their moral compass, especially when we are talking about a not-for-profit? Shame.
TIM KRIEGER
Port St. Lucie
Legislators looking out for themselves
The proposed Florida Blue reorganization should be DOA. This is just another sad, and all too frequent, example of the few seeking to benefit at the expense of the many.
Sen. Joe Abruzzo, D-Wellington, and his cohorts in the Legislature should be ashamed of themselves for so brazenly shirking their responsibility to the folks who elected them and trusted their judgment. They approved legislation to help Florida Blue, all for the sake of a campaign contribution payback ("Insurance rule lacked scrutiny, critics say").
Kudos to The Palm Beach Post for digging through the paperwork and making a real public service contribution. I hope it makes a difference.
RICHARD McBRIDE
Palm Beach Gardens
Editor's note: Insurance regulators held a hearing Friday on Florida Blue's plan. Public comment on the plan will be taken through this week. Send comments to BCBShearing@floir.com For more information, visit www.floir.com/Sections/LandH/BCBSHearing.aspx
New Twinkies not ones I recall fondly
Regarding "Twinkies return to stores": When my mom packed my lunch, she always included a Hostess Twinkie. You did not have to share them, because we all seemed to have one.
I bought a box of the "new" Twinkies. I was not thrown back to my childhood. I was thrown by the hype and the fact that you can chew this thing -- that is a lot smaller than I remember -- forever. The calorie count is down from 150 to 135, but I could not bring myself to have a second.
I read the ingredients. There is nothing "real." There are preservatives that only a nutritionist who graduated in the top half of her class would understand. They do, however, have the redeeming fact that their shelf life has gone from 26 days to 45 days. Those preservatives must be very potent.
HELENE JARVIS
Lake Worth
Gun law staying, so change legislators
Regarding Randy Schultz's column, "Without a gun, there is no tragedy": I will always believe that if George Zimmerman, as captain of the neighborhood watch, had followed the Sanford police instructions, stayed in his truck and not followed TrayvonMartin, this whole event would not have happened.
This case means that, in Florida, if you have a gun and a concealed carry permit, you can initiate a confrontation with a second person. If that person stands his ground, then begins to gain an advantage, you can shoot and kill and claim self-defense. Why don't we start renaming our cities Dodge and Tombstone?
But changing this law will not be easy. The NRA wants "stand your ground" to remain intact. The NRA controls the Republican Party which, in turn, controls Florida, with the governor and a majority in the House and Senate. It will be easier to change legislators in 2014 than the legislation now.
W.T. WALCH
Jupiter
Reduce violence by regulating guns
The Zimmerman case has inspired considerable debate about race in the criminal justice system. This is an important debate. However, another debate should also happen. This is over the epidemic of gun violence in this country.
Bill Cosby made an important point soon after the death of TrayvonMartin. He stated that the one thing we know about the case is that if George Zimmerman did not have a gun, no one would have died that night.
This country is awash in guns. We must begin to move toward tighter regulation of guns in this country. The Machin-Toomey bill, which closes the gun show loophole, would be a good beginning.
RICHARD GREENE
West Palm Beach
Obama wrong to speak about case
President Barack Obama has become the divider, not a person who unites people .
The jury has spoken, and George Zimmerman is not guilty. Mr. Zimmerman will live with the fact that he killed a young person. If I had shot TrayvonMartin, I would feel badly about it, but I would be alive. Self-defense is the defense that was argued, and that is why he was found not guilty, no other reason. The president did not make a good move by speaking out.
AL SHALHOUB
Boca Raton
Law forces state to prove guilt
The "stand your ground" law redresses a significant and even unconstitutional issue in the law. We are innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. We do not have to prove we are innocent.
Consider this: A guy comes at you with a gun, knife or club, and you shoot him. You claim self-defense, but the prosecutor raises questions about your ability to retreat. You have to prove your innocence. All the prosecutor has to do is raise reasonable doubt about your innocence. That turns our system of justice on its head.
With stand your ground, the state is placed back into the constitutional position of having to prove your guilt.
JOE LIPIEC
Jupiter
