President Obama stirred hearts with a noble song. Several days after the jury reached its verdict, he addressed the trial of George Zimmerman and the death of TrayvonMartin. The words that received the most attention were not his most important.
Obama said that 35 years ago he could have been Martin. The statement seemed to annoy whites who lack the gift of empathy or even the inclination to practice it. Humans generally do not try to see things from another's perspective. Obama and other African-Americans have been accused of not addressing problems within the black community. The allegation is not true. 
Obama's comments about the Zimmerman trial included the following: "(T)his isn't to say that the African-American community is nave about the fact that African-American young men are disproportionately involved in the criminal justice system," and "someone like TrayvonMartin was statistically more likely to be shot by a peer than by someone else." And he said in phrases that ought to appeal to conservatives as well as to liberals:
"There has been a lot of talk about, 'Should we convene a conversation on race?' I haven't seen that to be particularly productive when politicians try to organize conversations. They end up being stilted and politicized, and folks are locked into the positions they already have. On the other hand, in families and churches and workplaces, there's the possibility that people are a little bit more honest, and at least you can ask yourself your own questions about, 'Am I wringing as much bias out of myself as I can? Am I judging people as much as I can based not on the color of their skin, but on the content of their character?' That would, I think, be an appropriate exercise in the wake of this tragedy."
His remarks echoed his May 19 commencement address at Atlanta's Morehouse College, when he said:
"Just as Morehouse has taught you to expect more of yourselves, inspire those who look up to you to expect more of themselves. We know that too many young men in our community continue to make bad choices. And I have to say, growing up, I made quite a few myself. Sometimes I wrote off my own failings as just another example of the world trying to keep a black man down. I had a tendency sometimes to make excuses for me not doing the right thing. But one of the things that all of you have learned over the last four years is there's no longer any room for excuses.
"I understand there's a common fraternity creed here at Morehouse: 'Excuses are tools of the incompetent used to build bridges to nowhere and monuments of nothingness.'  Well, we've got no time for excuses.  Not because the bitter legacies of slavery and segregation have vanished entirely; they have not. Not because racism and discrimination no longer exist; we know those are still out there.  It's just that in today's hyperconnected, hypercompetitive world, with millions of young people from China and India and Brazil -- many of whom started with a whole lot less than all of you did -- all of them entering the global workforce alongside you, nobody is going to give you anything that you have not earned.
"Nobody cares how tough your upbringing was. Nobody cares if you suffered some discrimination. And, moreover, you have to remember that whatever you've gone through, it pales in comparison to the hardships previous generations endured -- and they overcame them. And if they overcame them, you can overcome them, too."
When Obama spoke about the Martin tragedy and to the Morehouse graduates grace flowed from his lips.
