July 28--The issue: President Obama reflects on the death of TrayvonMartin.
Our view: The president's call for calm reflection is good advice.
"TrayvonMartin could have been me 35 years ago," President Obama said recently during an impromptu visit at a White House press briefing.
Obama was reflecting on the not guilty verdict that freed George Zimmerman, who shot and killed Martin on Super Bowl Sunday 2012 in Florida. 
The above quote got most of the attention, and in itself did nothing to soothe the tension surrounding the case. Martin, an African-American, was shot by Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer. At some point the two encountered each other and Zimmerman shot Martin. Zimmerman said Martin was beating him, and he acted in self-defense, a claim backed by his bloody face and wounded head. The jury rejected the charges of second-degree murder and manslaughter.
Obama was criticized by some for not speaking out about the verdict, so he finally did. And his comments taken in total were measured and offer sound advice for all of us, black and white.
Obama said the issue for blacks is seen "through a set of experiences and a history that doesn't go away." He added that he has personally experienced the feelings of fear and distrust among whites when he, an African-American male, has walked by them, whether it's women nervously clutching their purses or nearby drivers locking their car doors.
Obama called on Americans to undergo a period of "calm reflection" in the wake of this incident. That's not easy, because emotions run deep on the matter of race, and emotional responses can easily make things worse and perpetuate the very stereotypes that may have played a role in triggering Zimmerman's decision to follow Martin and Martin's decision to engage in a physical altercation with Zimmerman.
Maybe the best example for young black males is to ask themselves that if Barack Obama could have been any one of them 35 years ago, what choices did Obama make that put him in the White House? The answer, obviously, is that he applied himself, worked hard and got an education. He got to be one of the most highly respected individuals in the world by acting respectable.
As columnist Gregory Clay noted in a piece published on these pages last Sunday, even Jesse Jackson has admitted to being relieved when he learns a person walking behind him down the street at night is white. So, it appears, even the utmost champion for racial equality admits to racial profiling.
Taking precautions to safeguard yourself and your property is not paranoid no matter where you live. What we'll never know what role race may have played in arousing Zimmerman's suspicions, leading to his call to authorities and the events that followed. Many in the African-American community certainly have their doubts.
Fortunately, Obama doesn't sound eager to see Zimmerman pursued on federal civil rights charges. There is no video as was the case in the Rodney King beating by police in 1991, and absent some new evidence, as Obama said, "Once the jury has spoken, that's how our system works."
Obama said he is hopeful that the next generation will move us closer to where we want to get racially because they aren't as hung up on the stereotypes that scarred previous generations. Let's hope he's right, but we all can do our part by focusing on the content of our own character. If we do that, the color of our skin will become increasingly irrelevant.
- Don Huebscher, editor
___ (c)2013 the Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wis.) Visit the Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wis.) at www.leadertelegram.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
