Back to the future with Rhythm & Booms
A block party that Paul Soglin helped organize against the Vietnam War during the 1960s continued even after the war ended, as those of us with insight into future expenses to the city warned would happen.
Now, about 40 years later, Mayor Soglin says the block party has to stop! Wow, what took him so long?
Now he wants Rhythm & Booms moved Downtown to John Nolen Drive. This would bring traffic gridlock for the event, with little parking for the estimated 200,000 attendees.
We should also not forget that there are many liquor outlets within a mile and a half of the proposed site. Families and others attending would be exposed to the drunks and the rowdy, destructive behavior we have experienced during the block parties of past years. 
A large fireworks display such as this will produce huge amounts of perchlorates and other debris that will add more pollutants to a lake system that we have been trying to clean up, though obviously we are losing our battle.
Has Madison's mayor not yet learned his lesson?
- S. Michael Shivers, Madison
Can't honor Paul Heenan by destroying others
With recently released information about Stephen Heimsness, people may have changed their minds one way or the other about the shooting that killed Paul Heenan last year. I have not.
An officer under stress is what I saw in the reports. He didn't get that way by walking puppies and bouncing babies on his knee.
Heimsness has, in our names, met daily with the worst people in our community and held them at bay, sometimes meeting force with force.
For the police union and management to blame each other is the tragedy. So is the loss of life.
We need a process in which other officers, union representatives and management all look for signs of stress and help people attain the services that are needed.
It's not a shame to need these services - it's a shame we can't find the cooperation to get it done so that the people who serve us can live a life of honor.
Officer Heimsness acted in our names that day as best he could. It was a hard choice, made in seconds, and he deserves better treatment than he's received.
Let's also honor the memory of our lost soul, Paul Heenan. We don't lift his soul further by destroying others.
- Woody Knox, McFarland
Political process needs enlightened approach
I'm sad about the judging, blaming and attacking throughout our political process - local to global.
I hear intense feelings, and feel unmet needs that are unlikely to be met without the consciousness, humility and vision provided by groups such as the Center for Nonviolent Communication (cnvc.org) or The Shift Network (theshiftnetwork.com), for example.
Can the people of America's "laboratory of democracy" model and inspire a better way of being, relating, resolving and stewarding?
- Carl Landsness, Madison
Why has TrayvonMartin become a national hero?
TrayvonMartin's death was a tragedy. George Zimmerman's life may well be another.
I am curious why this young man has become a national hero. Young black men are being murdered all over our nation by other young black men, but this young black man has become a symbol.
An eye witness stated that Martin was the aggressor and Zimmerman defended himself. None of the Monday morning quarterbacks saw anything, knew anything or were party to the circumstances which not only made the neighborhood watch a necessity, but resulted in the circumstances of this tragedy.
And now, even the president has jumped into the fray. Why incite and further divide an already divided country?
We have a justice system and the jurors took their obligation seriously, knowing their decision could cause repercussions. Some may not like the outcome, but that does not mean it was wrong.
If Zimmerman had been dressed in a hoodie, walking in Martin's neighborhood and been killed by Martin, would we have the same hysteria?
- Nancy Wild, Madison
Does Walker want Wisconsin to fail like Detroit?
Michigan's Republican Gov. Rick Snyder recently approved plans for Detroit to file for bankruptcy.
According to BuzzFeedpolitics.com, Snyder said "the fiscal realities confronting Detroit have been ignored for too long," adding bankruptcy was the "only reasonable alternative that is available."
According to BuzzFeed, Snyder told reporters in 2011 at a meeting with bond rating agencies that Detroit would not go into bankruptcy, that bankruptcy shouldn't be on the table.
With Detroit's bankruptcy, workers fear the loss of pensions and healthcare.
How financially prudent is it for divide-and-conquer Gov. Scott Walker and our tea party/GOPLegislature to pass a budget which funds the public school system while also funding the private school system? Private education is not cheap and should not be funded by Wisconsin tax dollars through vouchers for the rich.
Are Walker and the Legislature putting Wisconsin at risk and threatening the health care and pensions of workers through tax giveaways to the rich?
- Daniel Holzman, Baraboo
Our justices require more oversight
Regarding a recent letter to the editor titled "Give justices a single six-year term," I applaud this author's suggestions, yet something has been forgotten.
Be it one six-year term, a 16-year term or a life term, our justices are meant to hold their offices during terms of "good behavior" only. Common sense holds all judges accountable to the same standards of behavior.
Holding them accountable will control their tendencies to fall victim to the influence of special interest groups, and may even curtail abusive judicial review.
Our founders warned us that our democracy could become dysfunctional, and our justices are left unchecked, unaccountable. They have instituted an oligarchic system.
We must take back our government. Our representatives have failed us, and the judiciary has become the oppressive government that our founders once faced. What we see from our courts today is unacceptable. Let there be better oversight.
- Wallace Walker, Oshkosh
Abortion makes one wonder about civilization
Legislation passed banning abortions after 20 weeks does not stop all abortions. It still allows a woman who is around five months pregnant to abort her baby. And still some women are not satisfied.
It makes you wonder if civilization has gone over the cliff.
At five months the baby has a beating heart. This little boy or girl has fingers and toes, probably a cute little nose and beautiful eyes - eyes that will never gaze upon its mother's face.
And God forbid that we should put these women through an ultrasound!
Why do we allow abortion to be called a health issue? What is healthy about aborting a baby? Is it any different than throwing a baby into a lion's den? Would the baby be any less savaged?
What abortion supporters are doing is making evil seem good. To get the deed of darkness done, they disguise it as a work of light.
- Sharon Richter, Fennimore
No integrity in current district mapping
In response to the congressional district map that was recently printed, let's adopt a similar model to the Iowa one and find a nonpartisan agency to perform this remapping.
Now there's no thought given to the people, only to political favor. Let the lines be drawn based on population changes, not on political parties.
Isn't Wisconsin above all this deception? What happened to our integrity?
- Sharon Clark, Lodi
Government should let gay people marry
I am aware of gay couples who are Christian. I am also aware of atheist couples who are married.
Neither would be able to be married under most church doctrines, but both should be afforded the right to the pursuit of happiness in the Constitution.
The personal lives of two consenting adults should be none of our business, much the same as our medical records are no one else's business.
While I believe churches have the right to abide by their doctrines, I believe the government has the obligation to allow gay people to enter into a legal marital contract, just as atheists are allowed to.
We allow people of legal age of all races and religions to get married. Why are we afraid of gay people?
- Rex Tilley, Brooklyn
Let truce anniversary be a reminder to honor troops
Saturday marked the 60th anniversary of the armistice or "cease fire" of the Korean War, the first hostile action during the Cold War by a Communist country in an effort to conquer another country.
We veterans who have been able to revisit South Korea at the invitation of the South Korean Veterans Association call it the "forgotten victory." Without the intervention of the United States and United Nations, South Korea would have become what North Korea is today, and not the economic success it is.
More than 36,000 died, including combat, prisoner of war and non-hostile deaths. We should not forget the more than 800 with ties to Wisconsin who were killed, died as prisoners of war or listed as missing in action. There are still many whose remains have not been recovered.
Let's hope and pray that our efforts from July 1950 to July 27, 1953, were not in vain, and that there can be peace between North and South Korea as there was between East and West Germany.
- Gordon Faust, Waunakee, U.S. Air Force (retired)
