Problems with East Garrison
What is going on at East Garrison?
Now that the streets are mostly open to traffic, we took a drive through the area. What we found was not very good.
1. Many sections of the bike lanes are narrower than required in California, thereby illegal.
2. The bike route is not done correctly, especially on a section only 24 feet wide that intersects Reservation Road, a major thoroughfare. 
3. The car bottomed out several times, something that has never happened before. Weren't the roads built correctly?
What else has the developer done illegally or incorrectly?
When I tried to engage a representative of the developer, he blew me off and walked away. If nothing else, the company should be concerned about liability.
Is this another situation where a developer will build something, cut every corner possible, then take the profits and leave, to let local government fix the problems left behind?
Eric PetersenSalinas
Reopening Intergarrison Road a great idea
Many thanks to the county Board of Supervisors for having the courage and foresight to reopen Intergarrison Road. The motion, as framed, provides access and parking to the Jerry Smith Corridor for recreational users and to the general populace to public roads.
It will provide significant relief to the traffic on Highway 68 and Imjin Parkway, reducing our carbon footprint and a providing a needed alternative route into the former Fort Ord. In time it will connect to the Eastside Parkway, providing a bypass around CSU Monterey Bay and a third route into the Monterey Peninsula.
To those concerned about safety, I can only suggest being careful. Walk facing traffic, and as my parents taught me many years ago, look both ways before you cross the street.
Dan AmadeoMarina
Customer culpable in child prostitution
Child prostitution like any business exists only because there is a market.
The most culpable party in the child prostitution scene is the customer who hires the child and infuses money into the system. No pimp would offer an underage person if there was no money to be made.
In the July 30 article about the rescue of teenagers from prostitution by Operation Cross Country, there was no mention of the arrest of the johns. I hope this was an omission only in the article and not an omission in Operation Cross Country.
Patricia MerrifieldCarmel Valley
Zimmerman prosecution failed miserably
Entering a darkened area in pursuit of a suspect, I would have drawn my gun before entering.
George Zimmerman had his gun in hand long before facing Trayvon Martin. Martin grabbed at the gun, missed, but managed to grab Zimmerman's clothes or wrist. Martin began screaming for help and Zimmerman broke away or at least managed to turn the gun and shot Martin in the chest.
Proof?
Zimmerman said he received 30 to 35 mixed martial arts strikes. If so, his face would look like hamburger. A man's first instinct is to protect his head and face from further damage, not searching for his gun. Had his head been "slammed" against the pavement with force 10 or so times, he would have a skull fracture, be stunned or unconscious with severe head wounds, not scratches, and would be bleeding profusely.
His story is totally unbelievable, filled with inconsistencies bordering on incredulity. The prosecution failed miserably and a murderer got away scot-free.
Shades of Casey Anthony.
Joe MerrittCarmel
Time is now for immigration reform
If ever the United States needed comprehensive immigration reform, now is the time, again. If ever selfish and selfless motives coincide this is it   again.
Eliminating second-class status assigned to 12 million people will liberate economic and social energy that just may be the savior of us all. Now we see the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations marching arm in arm for reform.
Locally, the Silicon Valley Leadership Group and the California Strawberry Commission sang a duet in public for the same cause.
Libertarian think tanks such as the Cato Institute have studied the issue and concluded that, never mind the specific beneficiaries involved, capitalism itself gets a boost and the benefits are spread throughout the population. Every city in our tri-county area has passed a resolution supporting comprehensive reform, except the city of Carmel. All three boards of supervisors in the tri-county area passed the same resolution.
Systems created along caste and class with specific populations held in a subterranean status have built into their society and economy retarding forces, driving down freedom of expression and thwarting tremendous creative potential that yearns to breathe free.
Gary KarnesPacific Grove
Congratulations on Feast of Lanterns
Wow!
What a great finale for a wonderful hometown celebration.
Congratulations to the Feast of Lanterns committee, the royal court, the business sponsors, entertainers and the city of Pacific Grove.
Although we missed some events, it was great fun meeting old friends at the pet parade on July 26 and again on the beach on July 27, which was capped off by the wonderful fireworks show.
Let us all do our share to make sure next year's Feast of Lanterns, including the ones to come in the future, are just as memorable for our families.
Roy and Barbara MeazellPacific Grove
