My name is not TrayvonMartin; my name is Gemma Raeburn-Baynes, living for the past 50 years in Montreal. But I can relate to the parents of TrayvonMartin and the hundreds of thousands of people around the world who were stunned, speechless and angry over the not-guilty verdict for George Zimmerman after the fatal shooting of young Trayvon in Florida.
I am writing this with dismay because I cannot believe that we as African-Canadians or African-Americans cannot live as ordinary people - doing ordinary things like cleaning our garage or driving to work - without being racially profiled and seen as potential criminals, and ending up arrested or, like Trayvon, shot dead. 
As black people, it is clear to me that we do not really have full and equal citizenship. Our black skin and society's racial stereotypes make us targets and looked on as suspected criminals.
I had my own personal experience in this respect in 2004, when cleaning out the garage of my West Island home at 11:30 in the morning with two of my friends who happened to be black men in their late 50s.
One of my neighbours, who was only 17 years old at the time, saw two black men in my backyard and immediately assumed they were robbing my home. So she called the police, as according to her information there had been a lot of break-ins in the neighbourhood recently. This white neighbour assumed, just as Zimmerman did, that my friends were up to no good, engaging in criminal activities. Police arrived with their guns drawn. We were all
detained, including me, who had to prove that I was indeed in my own home.
Fortunately, no one was injured, at least not physically, although we were all shocked, especially in my case, since one of the officers told me, with his firearm still pointed at me, that "bullets see no colour."
It seems to me that despite all the laws that guarantee equal protection and benefit of the law for all, there is still not full and equal access to justice for people of the black race in this city and province.
As we took our case to the Montreal police ethics commissioner and then to the police ethics committee and then to Quebec Court, we were also confronted with inadequate access to justice,
all along the way. It was clear that decision-makers, including judges, were struggling to accept the idea of racial profiling.
My friends and I had to undergo three appeals, up to Superior Court, in order to find some resolution to our case. The whole process took six years and ended in a financial settlement, the terms of which I cannot discuss.
Still to this day, I find myself asking questions such as: Should black people go through the justice system at all? Can we really trust the justice system to do the right thing? Are there separate rules for blacks and whites? Is our criminal justice system racially biased? How can we feel comfort and protection as ordinary people in our community,
even when we are visibly older senior citizens? What about our children and our young black men, who are statistically proven to experience disproportionately more police interventions, criminalization and unemployment? Can we trust our judiciary when, out of more than 500 federally and provincially appointed judges in Quebec, there are only two black judges? This is not normal, just as it is equally unacceptable that I and my two old black friends in the garage incident had to go through painful and costly court appeals to finally obtain justice.
My son was born and raised in Montreal. He is a John Molson School of Business graduate and a successful
businessman. And yet I still worry each and every day for his safety. What happened to Trayvon could easily happen to him. He has been profiled and questioned by the police on a few occasions here in Montreal in bars and clubs, in front of his white friends who were not asked for ID.
As my son often does, Trayvon was simply walking home from the store, going about his everyday life, and was profiled and intercepted by Zimmerman as a black "thug" up to no good. This assumption left Trayvon dead with a bullet through his heart.
There is a lot to learn from the TrayvonMartin tragedy. The negative stereotypes surrounding the black male should no longer be tolerated.
As President Barack Obama stated: "We should ask ourselves if we're doing all we can to widen the circle of compassion and understanding in our own communities."
There are many TrayvonMartins right here in our city, and in our own neighbourhoods in Montreal. The peaceful demonstrations around the globe in the wake of the Zimmerman verdict showed there is a new generation of youth willing to struggle for real justice.
We must renew our commitment to end racial injustice and to push for a world where, as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. put it 50 years ago, we are judged on the basis of the content of our character and not the colour of our skin.
