Consider Friday night's Skyline Music Festival at Target Field an apparently successful experiment.
While country superstar Kenny Chesney has sold out the downtown Minneapolis ballpark two summers running, the Twins organization used this concert -- featuring Minnesota favorites the Gear Daddies and Soul Asylum along with Matthew Sweet and Big Head Todd and the Monsters -- to see how a smaller show would do in the gorgeous outdoor venue.
As such, the stage sat in foul territory near third base, with seating limited to about a fourth of the stadium. Fans got a great view of the stage, the downtown skyline ... and the vast, empty expanse of the rest of Target Field. Some 6,752 folks attended, which was enough to sell out this limited configuration. 
Three of the four acts -- save for the Gear Daddies -- are spending the summer together on a package tour. Bob Marley's band, the Wailers, are playing other dates on the tour, but probably missed this one because they're booked to play the Summer Set Music and Camping Festival next month in Somerset, Wis.
The shtick is that each band is performing one of their classic albums in its entirety: "Girlfriend" (Matthew Sweet), "Grave Dancers Union" (Soul Asylum) and "Sister Sweetly" (Big Head Todd). Those three records all date from the early '90s and it looked like the vast majority of folks in the crowd were in college when the discs first hit the shelves.
The Gear Daddies were already on stage when the afternoon sun was still shining and people were filing into the venue. They turned in a polite, low-key performance that concluded with -- what else -- "(I Wanna Drive the) Zamboni."
Matthew Sweet, 48, followed by re-creating his 1991 breakthrough "Girlfriend," an album best known for its infectious title track and the monstrous guitar sound provided by Richard Lloyd and the late Robert Quine. Sweet and his current band nailed the six-string squeal but faltered some in the harmonies department. Sweet also bailed on playing the entire record to make room for his best known song, 1995's "Sick of Myself." (It's also worth noting that while Sweet sang a song about Winona Ryder, Soul Asylum's Dave Pirner used to date her.)
I had high hopes Pirner would pull out his SpaghettiOs T-shirt from back in the day, but alas, it didn't make an appearance Friday night. Indeed, Pirner himself was the only remnant from Soul Asylum's classic days. Bassist Karl Mueller died in 2005 (and was the focus of the set-opener, "Oh, Karl") and guitarist Dan Murphy left the group last year. While Murphy was very definitely missed, Pirner did a decent job on his own.
He dedicated "Black Gold" to Trayvon Martin and, later, said "Without a Trace" usually goes out to Mueller, but this time around was for Slim Dunlap, the former Replacements guitarist who suffered a serious stroke last year and has been honored with the ongoing "Songs for Slim" charity project. At the end of the set, Pirner welcomed Minneapolis singer/songwriter Larry Long on stage for a rousing version of "Stand Up and Be Strong."
Colorado's Big Head Todd and the Monsters wrapped up the night with the sort of highly polished, easily likable set that has made them a go-to group for this sort of show. Don't be surprised to see the Twins try another Skyline Music Festival next summer.
Pop music critic Ross Raihala can be reached at 651-228-5553.
Follow him atTwitter.com/RossRaihala .
