Next month marks the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights March on Washington DC. Yet as America debates the acquittal of Trayvon Martin's killer, George Zimmerman, it is clear that the nation's long conversation about race is far from over. And though President Barack Obama spoke in measured terms on news channels last Friday, on reality TV, that conversation remains raw. 
CBS is presently airing the 15th series of the US version of Big Brother. Historically, the network has shied away from showing its contestants' racist behaviour, often removing all trace of bigotry from the show's broadcasts - because, in the words of executive producer Allison Grodner, the programme-makers "don't want to put hateful things out there".
This summer, however, avid viewers of Big Brother's internet livestream have spotted even more racial slurs than usual in the house. "Why not show these people for who they actually are?" demanded reality TV blogger Andy Denhart.
The network decided to make the issue a series motif, and has since offered its viewers a rare, extended study of casual racism at work. The main offender is Aaryn Gries, 22, a blonde Texan model who last week, for little or no reason, flipped the mat-tress of the sole black female housemate, Candice Stewart, and then goaded her in an apparently mocking accent, asking "What you gon' do, girl?" When Stewart vocally defended herself, she was confronted by another white contestant, GinaMarie Zimmerman (no relation), who yelled, "You want the black to come out?" Gries warned her allies to be careful of Stewart in the dark, "because you might not see the bitch", and dismissed Asian-American contestant Helen Kim by telling her to "go make some rice". Among other slurs, Zimmerman recently referred to welfare payments as "n***** insurance".
The mattress incident ended only when Howard Overby, the only other black housemate, lifted Stewart and carried her from the room. As she wept in his arms, a visibly angry Overby urged her not to retaliate. There will be repercussions nonetheless: unbeknownst to them, Gries has been dropped by her modelling agency, and Zimmerman fired from her job as a pageant co-ordinator.
Yet it is not just the contestants who have been implicated. The approach of programme-makers is now under the spotlight, too. The producers of the Fox network's American Idol are being sued by 10 black former contestants, who claim they were targeted for ejection from the TV talent contest because of their race. According to TMZ, the contestants are demanding $25m each.
