Exploring lagoon problems
Another study or committee probably won't hurt, but it's not what our waters need. The Indian River and Mosquito Lagoon are part of a worldwide decline in aquatic resources, characterized by blooms and "dead zones."
Part of the problem is that activities on land bristle with energy and construction, while the aquatic world is left with the same mechanisms that ruled the Stone Age. Modern waters lack the energy and infrastructure to meet 21st century conditions, and restoration efforts based on status quo methods cost too much, take too long, and ultimately affect too little. 
Our experience with Rose Bay is an example of that status quo approach. In the case of Mosquito Lagoon, a more direct method would be to realize that gravity flow and exchange have been impeded by causeways and reduced channel maintenance.
One simple step to address this imbalance would be to install flow deflectors on the footings of the North Causeway in New Smyrna Beach. The footings for this bridge, completed in 1997, are quite large, blocking about 30 percent of the main channel feeding the lagoon.
Another step would be active flushing of the lagoon with flow devices, which can be as simple as the prop-wash from an anchored vessel, sited at key points within the lagoon system to augment gravity flow.
Given current propulsion systems and the relatively weak tidal flow at Ponce De Leon Inlet, just a few modern vessels could have a significant effect on flow and exchange. Taken together, these steps could help tip the energy equation and return the lagoon to a more healthy state. Hopefully a demonstration of the above techniques will occur in the months ahead.
HENRY PATE
Port Orange
Daytona looks desperate
It looks as though old, painful lessons have been brushed away in the euphoria of new development on the oceanfront. Wow, let's encourage them to take as much land as they want, build as high as they wish (how about 50-100 stories tall instead of 33?), give as many incentives as possible, and let them relocate anything (like a beach approach and public parking area).
Let's move the public parking area several blocks away into someone else's neighborhood. While we're at it, let's offer to close all the adjacent approaches and give them a no-drive beach! What the heck, the strategy is to give away as much as humanly possible to draw the big bucks to Daytona Beach.
Who cares that the residents don't want to be Orlando or Miami with their traffic and crime and don't want to lose any more beach to no-driving zones or to premature evening shadows. They have old- fashioned ideas about maintaining an attractive, mid-sized, easy- going, somewhat folksy oceanside resort, and don't really want 33- story condo-hotels.
THOMAS R. MEACHEM
Daytona Beach
Forgetting who's boss
Have the local city and county managers and commissioners forgot who are their bosses and who pays their wages? When these people ask for more tax dollars from their bosses, it shows that they do not know how to manage even though they are paid big wages. They should be fired.
Daytona Beach could join its fire and police departments together and the firefighters sitting around the station could help patrol the city, and keep one person at the station to drive each fire truck. Call the firefighters on patrol on police radios, if needed to fight a fire. This would save on overtime and add more police on the streets.
Cut middle management wages by 10 percent, as they are being overpaid.
The people who you want to tax are having a hard time just making ends meet, so get off the gravy train and start earning those big wages they are getting.
ALBERT E. LEWIS
Ormond Beach
President's remarks divisive
After listening to the president's remarks concerning the TrayvonMartin case, I believe he no longer is the leader of all the people in our country today.
For the second time he has expressed views that show bias toward the Martin case. He now finds himself in the same company as the Rev. Jesse Jackson and the Rev. Al Sharpton. It is unfortunate he did not remain above the hue and cry. He has shown little faith in the rule and the integrity of our judicial system.
Our president should be a shining example for all the people in this country, not just a few. In my eyes, he has failed us in this respect.
ROBERT CHAPIN
New Smyrna Beach
Empathy for parents
I'm responding to the author of a letter on Sunday's opinion page about the George Zimmerman trial. He says that he is sick of it all. Which I'm assuming means the rallies going on across the country.
He should try putting himself in TrayvonMartin's parents' state of mind. I hope not, but does the writer know the feeling of burying his own child? Does he think that his parents are having a good time with everything that's going on?
If people don't want to be part of the solution, then they will remain part of the problem.
TONI WILLIAMS
Daytona Beach
Don't forget Benghazi
We were so distracted by the Zimmerman trial. Now that it's over and he is not guilty, let's move on to the big news.
Deep in everyone's heart, we have not forgotten these four Americans who lost their lives. They are gone and this should not have happened. Why weren't these four Americans protected?
Precious life was taken before our very eyes -- where was President Barack Obama, where was Secretary of State Hillary Clinton? Where are the parents of these men who, sadly, were left to die in the most horrific way? If this was my son, I would not let this go away.
Will there ever be justice for these men who suffered? Only the most higher-up (God) will ever know -- unless someone squeals. Where are the eyewitnesses? We all want answers to these questions.
There are too many distractions, too many false pretenses. Let's get on the right track and settle this once and for all. Maybe, like everything else, it will be all swept under Obama's rug in our White House -- but we the people want justice, and we will not forget!
LAVINA BURGESS
Edgewater
