Tuesday July 30, 2013
To the editor of THE EAGLE:
There is no question in my mind: the U.S. is going to collapse because of the incredible foolishness of its people. No foundation can handle the awesome weight of such gross stupidity. People don't read or hear or see. They see what they want to see, hear what they want to hear. 
If a black person, white person or purple person really read the facts in the George Zimmerman case, he would realize the case has nothing to do with race, has nothing to do with the stand your ground law, has nothing to do with Zimmerman acting like a wannabe cop. For the uninitiated: 1) Zimmerman's neighborhood was being repeatedly robbed and the thieves never got caught. For this reason, Zimmerman joined the neighborhood watch.
Zimmerman helped black people throughout his life, housing some, mentoring some, and standing up for a homeless black man who was mistreated by the police. He dated a black woman, and defended a homeless black man! Zimmerman did not bring up race when he saw Martin, the dispatcher asked what color -- white, black? The "they always get away" comment is due to NBC doctoring his 911 call and the network will face Zimmerman's attorneys soon. Zimmerman followed Martin only so that when the police arrived, he could direct them to his exact location.
Martin acted foolishly. He had four full minutes to vacate the scene without issue. Instead, he doubled back, broke Zimmerman's nose, straddled him and began to pound his head on the concrete pavement. Zimmerman cried out for help but could not escape. There was one witness who identified the person with the black hoodie on top, which put Zimmerman on the bottom! Who is going to cry out? The guy on top or the guy on the bottom? Zimmerman cried out. Though the defense did not invoke the "Stand Your Ground" law during the trial, Zimmerman surely satisfied it as he cried out and tried to escape.
Zimmerman acted as a responsible gun owner who believed his life was in jeopardy. Yes, it was a huge misunderstanding, and an unfortunate one, but it was Martin's actions that caused all of it. In our society, is it OK to attack someone following you and break their nose and bash their skull?
NBC and the press are putting politics above the truth to gain political points with minorities. All of this at the cost of truth, at the cost of America. A foolish nation indeed.JEFF BRANCA
Pittsfield
