No $700,000 for ex-mayor
And the saga continues from under former Mayor John Cook.
First it was the demolition of City Hall and the science museum coming after the issue on domestic partners benefits.
Now, add salt to the injury. Cook wants the city to pay him $700,000 for his bad judgment in causing an attempt to recall him.
Mr. Cook, you need to move-on. 
Also, Mayor Oscar Leeser, when will the complete audit on city department heads and salary of staff begin? This will be a great benefit to taxpayers.
Maria Garcia, East El Paso
Growing competition in wireless
AT&T and T-Mobile's decisions to allow more frequent device upgrades (AT&T introduces option for faster phone upgrades, July 16) is further evidence of the growing competition for consumers in the wireless market.
Soon there will be four national providers of 4G LTE service that offers mobile broadband speeds of up to 20 Mbps -- speeds fast enough for virtually any video or other Internet application.
We owe a lot of credit on this to President Bill Clinton, who set this in place in his 1996 Telecom Act, an approach that required these three kinds of broadband technology to compete against each other.
Washington's goal now should be to see how we can continue this kind of brass-knuckled competition between all of these technologies and how best to incentivize the investment spawned by that competition.
Roger Campos, President & CEO, Minority Business RoundTable, Washington, D.C.
Dropped-off dog finds good home
We want to say thank you to the family that surrendered their dog to the Humane Society for adoption. I don't know who you are, and I am sure it was not an easy decision to make, but I wanted you to know he went to a family who adores him.
He is such a wonderful, smart, obedient dog. He listens, is house-broken, and has so much love to give. You did a wonderful job and we are reaping the rewards.
Also, thank you to the Humane Society for the wonderful job they do. We were truly impressed.
Elaine Coiro-Herrada/Irene Bromley, East El Paso
George Zimmerman's rights violated
Yes, Eric Holder and Obama must call a civil rights violation in the Trayvon Martin case. George Zimmerman was unlawfully arrested. His rights have been violated. A jury found him not guilty, so shut up.
O.J. Simpson was found not guilty and there were no protests.
Leno Puentes, Central El Paso
Storm drainage assessment fee
Our business has been paying thousands of dollars for six years for the stormwater drainage assessment fee. It is quite obvious that nothing has been done to curb the tremendous flooding that occurred Tuesday evening.
Doniphan Drive was again impassable. Mesa Street could have floated the ark.
We are totally disgusted with no progress in six years to correct this flooding problem.
Joe Campbell, West El Paso
Stop fights when boxer hurt
I was 13 on March 24, 1962, and was watching a championship fight for the welterweight title. Champion Emile Griffith was fighting Benny "The Kid" Paret.
It was a good fight and Emile stopped Benny "The Kid" Paret in the 12th round, but Benny went into a coma and died 10 days later. The referee that night, Ruby Goldstein, never worked another fight.
Emile Griffith died recently at age 75. He said he lived with guilt but kept boxing because he didn't know anything else. Emile said he was never the same after that fight. He would do enough to win, but never wanted to hurt the other guy.
The fight left a cloud over boxing for many years. It was sad to see someone die from boxing on national TV.
I have remained a boxing fan and believe in stopping a fight immediately when one of the boxers is hurt.
Stephen Curtis Drabner, West El Paso
Men establish women's rights
The rules of life prescribed for women of the world have always been established by men, without their consent. Women's rights are being lost through asinine laws.
The ongoing horseplay in the Texas Congress, abortion-restricting laws against women, is a repeat of this injustice. Fueling the continued oppression of women are religious and social psychopathic men who have hijacked the name of our creator to commit oppressive acts against women. No human can ascertain the day of its conception, nor predict sexual anatomy, nor choice of family. It is certain, though, that a woman is the natural incubator of the human race. Therefore, a woman should have sole decision power over what can grow inside her body.
Henceforth, laws should be established restricting men to hold the pendulums in control until they are of age and responsible enough to cater for the planted seeds during intimacies with women.
Edward J. Akinola, Central El Paso
