The following is a selection of quotes from editorials and commentaries published in 24 July editions of Iranian newspapers available to BBC Monitoring at 0530 gmt.
Principle-ists still "key players"
Arman [moderate]: "In addition to revising the budget for 1392 [2013-14], the 11th government [of President-elect Hassan Rouhani] should take numerous other steps towards correcting the policies of the ninth and tenth governments... Here, the principle-ist movement can play a significant role. Even if we define the composition and nature of the 11th cabinet as being separate from the principle-ist movement, the fact that it still possesses decision-making resources means that this movement will be a key player even if it has absolutely no presence in the government... Given this, two fundamental issues should be considered: First, that Amadinezhad's administration is not the only body responsible for the current situation, which is the result of interactions in the upper echelons of power. Second, that the 11th government cannot solve all these problems and correct improper actions and methods on its own and without political balance in society." (Editorial by Gholamreza Tajgardun headlined: "Principle-ists, 11th government and corrective steps")
Trust-building under Rouhani government 
Javan [conservative]: "The speculations and comments made by reformists, while the 11th government is being formed, show that they are after the Ministry of Science [Research and Technology]... This desire seems commonplace for those already familiar with the history of the reformists, because unlike the principle-ists, the base of support for reformists is not Hezbollah [religious figures], mosques, or religious groups... In Iran, this base is universities... If reformists would like to expunge [what they have done] from their records in the Islamic establishment, they should not do what they did before, because they know that they will never achieve their goals. They will experience the same fate as before when they tasted the bitterness of failure. Therefore, some sound advice for reformists who do not support sedition is that they use Rouhani's presidency as an opportunity for trust-building and compensating for past [behaviours] instead of an opportunity to oppose [the establishment]. (Commentary by Abdullah Ganji headlined: "Reformists and Ministry of Science")
Lack of parties challenge for moderate government
Mardom Salari [moderate]: "The concept of moderation, which has been raised by the president-elect [Rouhani], is one which can have a meaning of making the most out of existing talents and potential. With this in mind, we will discuss the necessity for the future government to use all its capacities and work on using Iranian human resources in a proper way in order to be strong, or in other words, to be able to accomplish its goals in a moderate environment. However, there are serious problems in this regard which create problems for group and collective talents... The absence of nation-wide political parties is a serious problem in Iranian society. It is a problem that pushes Iranian society towards group political activities... Another problem is the lack of knowledge based on public opinion. No press can claim to reflect Iranian public opinion... Lack of clarification in the arena of social activities or escaping [this responsibility] is one of the other existing problems with the political culture of Iran's activists and administrators, and this seems to be a cultural problem." (Editorial by Abdullah Movahed Zadeh headlined: "In which situation moderation will be realized?")
Government statistics belie "horrific" economic situation
E'temad [reformist]: "The statistics [released by the government] are not acceptable for the people. The people think that the government statistics are those for a different country. One of the statistics that they [Mahmud Ahmadinezhad's administration] gave is on reduction in unemployment. But in reality, what household does not have two or more unemployed youth in it? Another statistic given by the government is on the control of liquidity. At the beginning of the ninth government, the liquidity in the private sector was around 70,000bn tumans [about 28bn dollars]. The government had to control and reduce this amount through the Fourth [Economic] Plan, but it was neither controlled nor decreased. It increased this amount considerably by six times; that is, it reached 420,000bn tumans. These statistics reflect the country's horrific economic situation. In the statistics they gave, they said they took office in the worst of situations whereas they should say they took office in one of the best possible situations! They portray the best situation as the worst one and unfortunately, there is nobody to ask them why they come up with unrealistic statistics... These are all happening because we do not have political parties in the country." (Editorial by Mohammad Reza Khabaz headlined: "Non-transparent statistics the result of lack of political parties")
Rifts in Islamic world
Keyhan [hard-line]: "Today, we see that all those who forgot about Al-Quds [Jersualem], are standing beside the intruders and occupiers of Al-Quds while not paying any attention to the security of Muslims. To see evidence of this, look at Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Yemen, Bahrain... Unfortunately, over the last two years we have witnessed the formation of new rifts in the Islamic world. Today, most parts of this region are involved in conflict and the blood of Muslims is being shed by other Muslims... If only Muslims could agree on some red lines and defend against their enemies [the West]... The shedding of the blood of Muslims by other Muslims is banned by the Koran and this can be considered a red line." (Commentary by Sadollah Zarei headlined: "All problems will be solved with Al-Quds")
US foreign policy "failures" symbolize Obama's weakness
Resalat [conservative]: "US President Barak Obama's popularity is declining with each passing day. The US president's failure to control the economic crisis and the numerous failures of US foreign policy have resulted in Obama becoming a symbol of failure, weakness and inability. Meanwhile, neither are many of the Democrat Party's supporters satisfied with Obama's performance. Obama himself knows well that the main factors contributing to his victory in the 2012 presidential election were the disorganization of the Republicans' camp and Mitt Romney's personal weaknesses... Currently most American citizens believe that Obama's foreign policy is fraught with weaknesses. The reality is that Obama is following in the footsteps of Bush Jr and other former US presidents with respect to foreign policy and there is no difference between the current and former presidents of the USA in this regard."(Commentary by Ali Reza Sadeqi headlined: "Decline of Obama's popularity")
Iran-USA talks
Sharq [reformist]: "The USA has several times suggested holding direct talks between the USA and Iran as a solution to the crisis. Iran does not oppose negotiations, but it is doubtful of the USA's goodwill... It should be stressed that the USA has played a significant role in creating the current crisis and it is considered the main party to the dispute and controversy, and that is why the USA can play a constructive role in [Iran's] nuclear issue and gradual removal of sanctions." (Editorial by Yusef Mowla'i headlined: "Eleventh government and sanctions")
Iran to "rethink" EU ties after Hezbollah blacklisting
Siyasat-e Ruz [conservative] "Ultimately, the EU has included Lebanese Hezbollah in its list of terrorist groups...to show once again how effective the Zionists' and Americans' ideas and viewpoints are... The EU should take this point into consideration that alongside this injustice and illegal measure, the EU will force the Islamic Republic of Iran to make a decision about this move and rethink its relations with some European countries. The European measure will have effects on relations with Iran... The USA's and West's alleged readiness to hold effective and direct talks with Iran are only a trick and a conspiracy." (Editorial by Mohammad Safari headlined: "Consequences of including Hezbollah in the list of terrorist groups")
Egypt army serving whose interests?
Hemayat [conservative]: "At the same time as Egypt's security problems started to develop, the country's army expanded its measures in the Sinai desert. The army has claimed that militant groups in the area are adopting measures against the Egyptian security. So, the army is conducting extensive military operations in the area at a time when news reports suggest that the army is destroying Palestinian tunnels which are only linking routes from Gaza to Egypt... But the army's attempts to destroy Palestinian tunnels have created doubts in the Egyptian army's actions... This begs the question: Do the army's measures in the Sinai desert and its destruction of Palestinian tunnels fall under Egyptian interests or is Egypt involved in a game which was created by others?" (Editorial by Qasem Ghafuri headlined: "Wrong address to Egyptian army")
Murder acquittal opens "racist" wounds
Jomhuri-ye Eslami [hard-line]: "The protests and demonstrations against the acquittal of the murderer [George Zimmerman] of an African-American [Trayvon Martin] are still continuing in various US cities... This case has reopened old wounds of racism and oppression against blacks in the US. This incident highlights the fact that despite grandiose rhetoric and misleading claims, racism still dominates American society and the US administration considers blacks as second-class citizens." (Editorial by News Service headlined: "Old wounds of racism in the USA")
Sources: As listed
