Tuesday July 30, 2013
Before sex, ask for ID
Editor of the Reformer:
When a man and a woman engage in sexual conduct, assuming it is consentual, no laws have been broken. Are men required to ask for proof of age before we engage in sex? The incident in Wilmington indicates we do so. A young lady, in this case a kid, engages in sexual conduct with three men, even though she knew she is not of age, and shouldn't have been there in the first place.
They, on the other hand are to blame. They engaged with her, unknown to them of her true age. Had they known her age, would they have still had sex with her? Because there was alcohol involved, maybe. I see young girls everyday that I assume are 18, but are only 12. They mature much faster than they did when I was a young man. My advice to all young men is, before you engage in any contact with a female, check their ID. Sounds stupid, but you are only protecting yourself. 
And parents of young girls, you should be more involved in your daughters' lives, and they maybe wouldn't be out looking for sex. Education starts in the home. So to end my opinion, I feel as though the young girl involved should be charged with coercion for her role into the assault. After all, she was a willing participant.
Roger L. Andrews,
Brattleboro, July 28
The safer wayto store nuclear waste
Editor of the Reformer:
On July 30, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, of which Sen. Bernard Sanders is a member, will hold a hearing on the Nuclear Waste Administration Act of 2013. This legislation would establish interim waste storage sites for high-level nuclear waste and a new oversight agency to manage the process.
Currently, 75 percent of the radioactive spent fuel is stored on site at nuclear reactors in overcrowded cooling pools. Given it will take years to build interim sites, this hearing is an opportunity for Sen. Sanders to call for thinning these pools by transferring spent fuel that has cooled sufficiently to cement and steel dry casks, which are safer and more secure. Spent fuel pools require electricity to circulate water, making them vulnerable during outages. Dry casks, conversely, are "passively" cooled by natural air flow.
Nuclear plant owners store as much as five times more nuclear waste in these pools than they were designed to contain. More spent fuel in the pools poses a greater risk to the surrounding community in the event of an accident that releases radioactivity.
Independent experts and labor, science and environmental organizations support transferring spent fuel to dry casks as quickly as possible to better protect the tens of millions of Americans who live within 50 miles of a nuclear reactor.
Christian O'Rourke,
Nuclear Safety Project,
Union of Concerned Scientists,
Cambridge, Mass., July 26
Dark side to wildlife education?
Editor of the Reformer:
Why do wild animals have to die to support Vermont's wildlife educational programs?
So much money spent to kill wild animals already captured and put in pens i.e.. management units which are probably large and green giving a false impression of naturalness.
None of the participants are fooled I'm sure, especially the doomed moose.
Anne Brinton
Brattleboro, July 22
Power of the jury
Editor of the Reformer:
It's too bad that the juror in the Trayvon Martin case who thought that George Zimmerman got away with murder didn't know about the principle of jury nullification. New Hampshire acknowledged the right of juries "to judge the application of the law in relationship to the facts in controversy" by codifying it into law last year (HB 146). In a previous unsuccessful attempt to codify the principle into law, a great amount of legal precedent was cited for the proposed law, which indicates to me that codification wasn't and isn't necessary.
People should know that the most powerful people in the courtroom are not the lawyers or the judge, but the members of the jury.
Jacqueline Brook,
Putney, July 29
