PRIMARY IS IMPORTANT
  The primary election ballots are out now, and I'll bet many voters won't know who to vote for. There are only six offices in Spokane County with three or more candidates running for a senate, city council or a school board position. Many voters might think "Why bother?" Answer: Because the primary is a critical election. It decides who will be on the November ballot. Hopefully, the two most qualified people will move on.
  As a member of "We Believe - We Vote," I was privileged to join a team of 18 average conservative citizens to interview all of the willing candidates for contested offices. We have posted our preferences and why we recommend one or two candidates over the others at www.WeBelieveWeVote.com. 
  Capable leaders who believe in life, marriage and limited government should be elected to ensure a more peaceful, safe and prosperous community. Check it out and pass it on.
 Carolyn Jacobs
 Spokane
UNCHARITABLE COVERAGE
  I'm happy that another reader was upset by The Spokesman-Review's July 13 coverage of the $25 million dollar bequest to Gonzaga University. The man's gift of money was relegated to "News in brief," while his legal problems made front-page news.
  I guess that says it all about which is more important to the paper. Rather uncharitable of you.
 Pat Kelly
 Spokane
WE TRIED SHRINERS
  My name is Brooke Davis, and I am the mother of Jameson Davis. Kaitlin Gillespie wrote an article about our story on July 14. I came across a comment made by Carole Folsom of Cheney in the July 21 (newspaper) about Kaitlin's article and wanted to let you know that her opinion is incorrect.
  We did not overlook Spokane Shriners Hospital. In fact, that was the very first place we sought help and any information for Jameson's prosthesis. Our consultation was with Dr. Paul Casky. He informed my husband, Jim, and I that they could not treat Jameson due to the fact that they lack a prosthetics department.
  We have had many people suggest Shriners here in Spokane, and we appreciate it, but the fact of the matter is that they do not have the "state-of-the-art procedure" that would benefit our son.
  My husband and I wish for the correct information to be told and let it be known that we have been to Shriners and they just do not have the facility to help us here.
 Brooke Davis
 Spokane
LET US SPEAK FOR OURSELVES
 I couldn't help but be perplexed and somewhat amused by Paul Carpenter's use of the pronoun "our" in his July 21 letter to the editor. Carpenter, who is a Colville resident, was venting his concerns about the Spokane City Council's proposed changes to gun-buying ordinances within the city itself.
 The last time I drove to Colville, it was 74 miles away and not even in the same county. I can only assume that the "our" reference to Second Amendment rights and tax money is toward those of us who actually live inside the Spokane city limits, who can vote on local leadership or social and political issues and pay taxes on our property, utilities and retail purchases.
 Of course, Carpenter does have a right to weigh in on just about anything he chooses. This is America. However, he should speak for himself as a Colville resident and don't presume to be a spokesperson for "our" concerns as actual taxpaying residents of Spokane.
 Len Hershman
 Spokane
CATHY'S KIT DISHONEST
  The July 24 article on Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers' "planning kit" for Republican House members to use during the August recess should be cause for alarm. I assume she follows her own advice to other Republican House members and will make sure that all participants and attendees to her Obamacare tour meetings in the 5th Congressional District will be adamantly "on message" that Obamacare needs to be repealed.
  This way, McMorris Rodgers can then "honestly" tell her constituents and fellow House members that Eastern Washington is 100 percent against Obamacare, and in favor of repeal, because she will have talked with people throughout the district and received such message loud and clear during the August recess.
  I would expect such shenanigans from former Louisiana Gov. Huey Long, but not from our 5th District representative.
 Stephen Drummond
 Spokane Valley
CANDIDACY EMBARRASSING
  I read the article about state Sen. John Smith, 7th District, and I was shocked. In the July 14 article, Smith admits to getting married in a white supremacy church, and he also admits to having white supremacy relatives.
  There is no room in today's America for politicians with white supremacy ties. And I can't understand how the Republican Party, or any other party for that matter, could support or endorse a politician associated with hate groups. This is absolutely embarrassing to the Republican Party, the Senate seat once occupied by Bob Morton and to Eastern Washington.
 Mike Brunson
 Springdale
HYPOCRITES OF JUSTICE
  The "radical" people wanted justice after TrayvonMartin was killed by George Zimmerman. The people demanded he be arrested and prosecuted.
  An arrest was made, a trial completed, followed by a "not guilty" verdict. Now, those same radical people are still ranting "Justice for Trayvon."
  Justice was served. It makes me sick that this is still going on, and making it a racially charged topic.
 Ronald Weidman
 Spokane
TYPE: Letters
