July 25--NEW HAVEN -- Activists are brainstorming on the next step in response to rocker Ted Nugent's scheduled appearance in the city next month.
"We're a city in mourning right now," longtime activist Barbara Fair said recently.
Nugent, after a Florida jury found George Zimmerman trial not guilty in the shooting death of TrayvonMartin, was widely quoted as saying the slain youth was a "dope-smoking, racist gangsta wannabe." 
Activists are working to "make it clear" Nugent is not welcome in the city, Greta Boudreau said recently.
"All of us who see Trayvon as our son and brother, when (Nugent) comes riding into town, we intend to ... let him know how we feel about the comments made about Trayvon," Fair said.
They are also concerned that Toad's Place did not cancel Nugent's Aug. 6 show.
"Out of respect for people who are experiencing so much grief, we think that the business that is based in New Haven, that makes money on New Haven people, should not allow him to come here," Boudreau said.
Toad's owner Brian Phelps said he's "the venue guy."
"We're just putting on a show," Phelps said.
"You've got a lot of artists that play here, some on the extreme right and some on the extreme left, and if you tell one side or the other, then you're actually hurting the other side," Phelps said earlier this week.
When asked to name an act on the other side politically, Phelps said, "I don't want to get into that."
Toad's seating depends on the show, Phelps said. It can accommodate about 750 people, he said.
Asked if the publicity surrounding the Nugent appearance has spurred sales, Phelps said, "I'm not sure of where the advance sales came from, but we do have advance sales, yeah."
A woman returning a call to a Nugent associate Thursday provided succinct answers to two questions.
Are there any issues with other venues?
"Nope."
Is he a racist?
"Nope."
She declined to answer further questions and hung up.
Fair was a speaker July 21 at a "Justice for Trayvon" vigil in New Haven.
More than 100 cities nationwide had been slated to hold demonstrations.
Zimmerman, a Hispanic, shot Martin, 17, who was black.
In the wake of the rally, Boudreau began a Facebook page, which debuted the following morning. The Boycott Toad's Place section has 250 members.
Her Facebook page is closed.
"Reactions to the Register's Facebook page on the issue have been very strong and very personal against me," Boudreau said Thursday. "I'm just surprised by the reaction because it's my right as an American to peacefully protest." s
Her goal is to reach people beyond the city activists, she said.
"Obviously, if he doesn't cancel the show, we're going to be there and it's going to be pretty clear that we don't want Ted Nugent here," Boudreau said.
Fair, who said she has been working two decades on "different issues" in the state and beyond, aims to "bring loads of people together" Aug. 6.
"I'm definitely going to be working with New Haven grass-roots. All of those people will be coming together," Fair said.
Both women were concerned Toad's did not cancel Nugent's show.
"The NAACP and some city residents have asked Toad's to cancel and they've refused, calling it a First Amendment issue," Boudreau said.
"It's clearly not about the First Amendment, it's clearly about the money."
Fair said, "We do respect that (Nugent) has a right to his opinion. But we don't appreciate that in this time of our mourning he's going to be in this town entertaining people."
Fair said she was "further upset that the owner won't even consider canceling the show. It's a slap in the face to the New Haven community," Fair said.
Boudreau's focus with others brainstorming on a recent afternoon included the other performers lined up for Toad's Place.
One idea is talking to other artists to see if they'll cancel their shows, Boudreau said.
"We're trying to think about it in a way so that we're not taking food out of the mouths of starving artists," Boudreau said.
___ (c)2013 the New Haven Register (New Haven, Conn.) Visit the New Haven Register (New Haven, Conn.) at www.nhregister.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
