The following is a selection of highlights from the Iranian national press on 24 Jul 13. 
Bahar 
24 July 2013 
Commentary by Reza Sharifi: "The Reformists' Share From Rouhani's Cabinet." Sharifi says that, while the role of the reformist figures, such as former President Khatami and presidential candidate Aref, in the victory of President-elect Rouhani should not be ignored, due to the facts such as the presence of a large number of principle-ist MPs in the Majlis, the reformists should not directly participate in the next government's cabinet. He says: "On the one hand, the reformists, by assuming positions such as advisers to the president or ministers can play a proper role in the government by presenting their constructive plans, and on the other hand save themselves from hardliners. Moreover, if some of their plans do not pan out for any reason, such as the objection of totalitarian forces or the government's under-performance, they can explicitly announce their criticism. Therefore, the reformist current can remain as a 'trusted adviser' and 'modest critic' for the government, and prevent the defeated currents from separating the government from the voters by exaggerating some of its possible weak points." (992 words) 
Donya-ye Eqtesad
24 July  
Unattributed report: "Donya-ye Eqtesad Reviews the Details of the Price Index Growth: Factors in the Rise of Inflation in Khordad [Month Starting 22 May 2013]." The report says that the Central Bank has released the most recent details of the inflation rate during the month starting 22 May 2013, "based on which the rise in the prices of health and treatment commodities, such as pharmaceuticals and medical costs, had the greatest impact on the growth of the inflation rate in both 'consumer' and 'supplier' sectors." The report adds that the price growth in the food and beverage group and the increase in the price of agricultural and livestock products also had a "high impact on average price growth" during this month. (1,994 words) 
Editorial by Reza Bakhsha'i, PhD student in Economics at the Sharif University of Technology: "Improving the Managerial Position of the Central Bank: The First Economic Test of the 11th Government." Bakhsha'i says that determining the economic priorities of the 11th government is one of the main discussions between economic experts in recent days, adding that issues such as employment, inflation, economic growth, and etc are among the priorities stated by economic experts in the country. He goes on to say that "improving the managerial position of the Central Bank can be considered the main field of the economic test of the new government," adding that "the way that the 11th government faces this issue represents its policy and economic performance in the future." Bakhsha'i adds: "In cooperation with the Majlis and the Expediency Council, if the 11th government manages to revive and finalize the issue of promoting authorities and the management of the Central Bank, in addition to recording a major economic achievement for the 11th government, it would also take a major step toward creating economic growth and stability in the country." (1,615 words) 
E'temad 
24 July 
Commentary by Afifeh Abedi: "Washington and New Delhi Increase Their Ties." Abedi discusses US Vice President Joe Biden's recent four-day trip to India and reviews the increasingly close relationship between the United States and India while evaluating its meaning for regional and global calculations. She says: "The type of agreements and relations that America has with India, as a great power with one which is growing, are extremely important from various perspectives, not only for China and Russia, but also for Iran, Afghanistan, and Pakistan." She reviews the history of these two countries' relationship, going back to WW2 , the Cold War, and the post 9/11 period, and says that, aside from $100 billion in bilateral trade, peaceful nuclear technology exchange, and aid for post-Taliban Afghanistan, these two countries are increasing their military and security relationship as well. She writes: "By growing closer together, these two countries are trying to form an obstacle to the disruption of the balance of power in Asia by China. Also, although in order to preserve Pakistan, America is willing to give any concession or allowance to Islamabad, however, it also uses its relationship with New Delhi as a pressure fulcrum against Islamabad as well. America even uses its relationship with India in its interaction with Iran as well, and the proof of this issue is the lack of success for the Peace Pipeline project thus far." (592 words) 
Commentary by Seyyed Emad Hoseyni: "A Coil of Confusion Called the Future of Egypt." Hoseyni discusses the future prospects of Egypt after the "army coup" that overthrew Muhammad Morsi from power and discusses the possible future role of the MB, Salafis, and even Al-Qa'ida in increasing violent clashes in the country. He discusses a recent announcement by Al-Qa'ida that it would pursue a plan of attack in Egypt which linked the country to the conflict in Syria and says: "Despite the fact that the MB is not considered a Salafi group, however, without doubt, the publications of takfirist [one who holds other Muslims to be infidels] fatwas [religious edicts] of those opposing Morsi and those elements who overthrow him may provide the groundwork for the extensive presence this group's supporter's in armed activities against the central government." Hoseyni warns that such a violent outcome is not unimaginable and adds: "Today, Egyptian experts are imagining scenarios such as Algeria, Iraq, and even Syria as real possibilities; scenarios that each considered worse than the others." (509 words) 
Hamshahri 
23 July 
Commentary by Mohammad-Mehdi Mazaheri: "A Coalition Against Democracy in Egypt." Mazaheri begins: "Today, the MB and its political role is the key for returning Egypt to democracy. This matter requires prudence, compromise, and a national agreement." He describes the "army coup" against the MB as a means of retaining their power and says: "It seems that power and politics in Egypt will remain with the army, which can give it to anyone it wants for an undefined period of time as a loan, and anytime it wishes, it can take it back." He criticizes the opposition political groups, including the secularists, liberals, and Salafis, for being short-sighted, then says: "It seems that these forces, after being unsuccessful in several back to back elections against the MB, opportunistically rode a wave of popular demand, when they knew well that neither he nor anyone else would be able to quickly respond to this volume of pent up national demands." Mazaheri calls their actions a political and strategic "miscalculation," then says: "The MB, despite all their mistakes, were the only force which had the social and political capacity to create entities in order to confront the domination of the army types in order to create a balance of power in society." He says that, without this MB capacity, the other groups combined will not be able to stand up to the military at all. Mazaheri writes: "In reality, the coalition of the majority, including the military and the liberal, secular, and Salafi forces, is not a coalition against the MB, rather, it was a coalition against one of the limited possibilities of establishing democracy in Egypt." (811 words) 
Commentary by Mohammad Karbasi: "America and Turkey's Difficulties in Syria." Karbasi reviews recent US congressional debates over the issue of Syria and discusses the "confrontational" conversation between General Martin Dempsey, US chief of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Arizona Republican Senator John McCain during a recent Senate Armed Services Committee hearing. He begins: "The transfer of arms and attempts to militarily intervene in Syria are the hot topics being discussed these days in America's political circles. In Congress, each day different issues regarding an attack are being discussed with the insistence of extremist Republicans." He refers to Dempsey's testimony and the general's assessment of five different military options for Syria and their linked costs and characterizes his exchange with Republican senators as "contentious," while saying that "he described the monetary and political dangers and consequences of these various scenarios for the US senators." Karbasi concludes: "Utilization of military forces in Syria essentially means the start of war, and avoiding its expansion into an extensive conflict will be difficult. Meanwhile, a group of representatives who are members of the US House Intelligence Committee have announced that, despite the risk of American arms reaching groups dependent on Al-Qa'idah, they want to continue the plan to transfer weapons to the Syrian opposition." (452 words) 
Hemayat 
24 July 
Commentary by Qasem Ghaffuri: "Misleading the Egyptian Army." Ghaffuri says that, concurrent with the beginning of the unrest in Egypt, this country's army has expanded its activities in the Sinai Desert, adding that: "the army claims that paramilitary groups in the region are acting against the security of Egypt." Ghaffuri says that published reports tell of the army's extensive action in the destruction of Palestinian tunnels that are the only passage through between Gaza and Egypt. Ghaffuri adds: "This matter cannot be overlooked, that the Zionist regime is always seeking to weaken Egypt and to dominate it." He continues: "Currently, Egypt is engaged in internal developments, while, by misleading the Egyptian Army and pushing them to war with the people of Gaza, the Zionists are trying to take advantage of Egypt to destroy Gaza's resistance, in order to, on the one hand, deprive Egypt of a support called Gaza, and, on the other hand, completely destroy Egypt's regional and international image." Ghaffuri concludes: "One can say that, currently, the Egyptian Army has begun the war on Gaza being misled by the Zionists, and ultimately, this will not only result in any achievement for the army, but it will also weaken the position of its population." (452 words) 
Jaam-e Jam 
23 July 
Commentary by Qasem Ghaffuri: "A Look at Two Scandals." Ghaffuri says that the world community both "condemns America's espionage" and is beginning a sanctions movement against Israel, attributing both developments to the success of "the resistance." He begins: "Global developments center today around two axes worthy of attention. The first is the international consensus in condemning America's espionage, not only on its own people, but also of all world citizens." He continues: "The second is that, these days, on the global scene, including Europe, widespread actions have begun to apply economic and even academic and scientific sanctions against the Zionist regime." He adds: "America and the Zionists are no longer the actors who claimed they could do anything they wanted and no one would prevent them." He says: "The resistance, based on the global capabilities for confronting America and the Zionists, has become a global phenomenon." He adds: "These developments show that, by relying on the resistance, big goals and hopes can be achieved." He concludes: "The global awakening today in the face of the Zionists and the universal approach of the sanctioning of this regime is an adaptation of the pattern that the resistance was able to place before international citizenry in recent years." (411 words) 
Javan 
23 July 
Commentary by Abdollah Ganji: "Reformists and the Ministry of Science." Referring to possible reformist efforts to win the Ministry of Science in the upcoming President Rouhani government, Ganji advises the reformists against such efforts and says that although setting policies for universities is a natural fit for reformists -- due to their cultural liberalism, humanism, pluralism, Protestantism, and secularism -- their presence in that ministry will remind the ruling establishment of the reformists' past and will aggravate the situation to the point where "they will lose even the least opportunities" for reform. Ganji says: "The social and academic discourse today is not the discourse of the years after 1376 [year starting 21 March 1997], even the critics and opponents of the regime have shifted their criticism to other areas." (689 words) 
Commentary by Mehran Ebrahimian: "The Development of Tourism With Regional Cooperatives." Ebrahimian argues for the usage of cyber education to create regional tourism cooperatives that would coordinate all aspects of Iran's tourism industry. He concludes: "It is obvious that such a system, thanks to cyberspace (which definitely, in the sector of education of tourism cooperatives) can, with the existence of expert forces, be accountable for natural, historical, and personal tourism. It can also even can be used in the fields of medical tourism, health tourism, and particularly adventure-seeking tourism, naturalist tourism, educational tourism, hard tourism, environmentalist tourism, cultural heritage tourism, black tourism, village-wandering, cultural folklore tourism (like the travel of Marco Polo to Iran and ... [ellipsis as received]), and exercise tourism." (682 words) 
Commentary by Ahmad Kazemzadeh: "The Israeli Spoof on the Path of Reconciliation Negotiations." Kazemzadeh says that the Israeli defense minister had approved plans for the construction of new settlements in the West Bank at the same time as John Kerry's trip there, and says the Israeli Government is using negotiations as a cover for its "expansionist and racist" plans. He says: "The Zionist regime, before the new round of negotiations would begin, with a particular avarice and greed, has added to the intensity and proliferation of its own expansionist and racist plans. Just as, in the past, it is trying to use these negotiations as a cover." He says, in turn, America and Europe "Did not do anything, not even protesting in a dry and empty way, but instead, by placing Hezbollah on the list of terrorist groups, they gave a big concession to this regime, which can make this regime even more successful." (575 words) 
Jomhuri-ye Eslami 
24 July 
Unattributed commentary: "Ankara and the Tangled Web of Recent Regional Developments." The author points to several setbacks facing the moderate Islamist Turkish prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, -- the fall of his Egyptian ally President Morsi, continuing domestic protests, negotiations with the Turkish Kurdistan Workers' Party, PKK, and the Syrian conflict -- and says that all these issues have driven the Turkish authorities from an offensive to a defensive position. The commentary says: "The Turkish officials, who, in recent years, considered themselves to be the big winner of the regional developments and were looking to take advantage of the Middle Eastern and North African revolutions, now, after the fall of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood, have gone into a strange defensive shell." (577 words) 
Unattributed commentary: "America Still Orbiting Racism, Violence." The commentary says that the "widespread protests" in the United States against the acquittal of a "white youth" charged with the death of a black youth, once again indicate that racism is still alive in the United States. It says: "The protests caused US President Barack Obama to ask them to keep calm and to promise that justice would be done in this regard." It asks: "Would this issue have ended differently if a white citizen had been killed instead of Trayvon Martin?" It concludes: "Given the atmosphere dominating the American society and the background of past events, it can be said that a racist outlook and presence of violence are institutionalized in the society." (959 words) 
Editorial: "The Old Wound of Racism in America." The editorial says that the acquittal of Martin Zimmerman in the fatal shooting case of Trayvon Martin led to widespread protests against the judicial system in the United States. It says that this case has "once again opened the old wound of racism and the rule of the spirit of oppression and tyranny over blacks in America and emphasized the reality that, despite pretentious and deceptive slogans, racism still rules in American society." It continues: "It is an undeniable fact that the US Government takes a racist stance against blacks; however they have tried to hide this reality in recent years." It says: "Native Indians in America, who are considered to be the first owners of the country, have never enjoyed legal rights equal to the whites in society." It concludes: "This racist and discriminatory behavior continues as US politicians boldly expect the world community to accept American society as a model and symbol." (758 words) 
Keyhan 
24 July 
Commentary by Sa'dollah Zare'i: "With Quds [Jerusalem], Every Problem Can be Solved." Zare'i points to the divisions among Muslims and says that the way to unite the Muslim world is through focusing on the common points, such as the effort to take Jerusalem away from Israel, fighting the West's hegemony in the Muslim world, Islamic ecumenical efforts, defending the sanctity of the Quran and the Prophet Muhammad, and through defining certain red lines, such as shedding the blood of other Muslims. Zare'i says: "Defending Palestine and the unity of Muslim countries over this issue facilitates the resolution of differences among Muslim countries." (1,426 words) 
Qods 
24 July 
Commentary by Mohammad-Mehdi Shirmohammadi: "An Opportunity To Review." Discussing the developments in the recent weeks in Egypt, which led to military's overthrow of President Morsi, Shirmohammadi blames the deposed president's policies toward Israel and the Syrian crisis: "Instead of relying on the Egyptian nation, he relied on the reactionary regimes and America, and sent personal letters to leaders of the illegitimate regime of Tel Aviv." He adds: "Tempted to receive aid from the Western-Arab front, Morsi supported the Syrian rebels, however he did not know what damage he would sustain from this Western-Arab aid." While criticizing the United States for avoiding to call Morsi's ouster a coup, he warns unspecified leaders of Arab countries and Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan, saying: "The governments of the reactionary Arab countries and Erdogan, who rely on the guardianship of the Zionists and America, should learn from reviewing what happened to Morsi. Erdogan was considering himself Morsi's older brother, and his Islamist government and the Muslim Brotherhood have a common blood group. Now, Erdogan should seriously review his policies in aligning with the Zionist-American front, especially his behaviour toward Syria." (481 words) 
Resalat 
24 July 
Commentary by Alireza Sadeqi: "The Decline of Obama's Popularity." Sadeqi says that US President Barack Obama's popularity "decreases day by day." He adds: "The failure of the president of the United States of America to inhibit the economic crisis on the one hand and his multiple failures in foreign policy on the other hand have led Obama to become a symbol of failure, weakness, and inability." He goes on to say that "many advocates of the Democratic Party are also unsatisfied with Obama's performance." He concludes: "Currently, the majority of US citizens believe that Obama's foreign policy is fraught with weaknesses." (949 words) 
Commentary by Dr Amir Mohebbian: "The 11th Government and the Necessity of a Media Strategy." Mohebbian says that Iran's 11th government entered the arena with the slogan of "Moderation, wisdom, and hope," adding that "every part of the slogan started relations with the desires of a class in the society, the result of which was attracting people's votes and winning the election." He continues: "Beyond what the elite understand, Dr Rouhani's slogans were also welcomed by masses; of course, the elite mostly started relations with its logical introduction and masses communicated with its possible consequences." Mohebbian says: "There is no doubt that any lack of understanding or misunderstanding between the masses and those in power will cause major problems in administrating the country, and, meanwhile, it is the responsibility of those in power to take action to resolve misunderstandings through awareness." Mohebbian concludes by saying that "the lack of strategy and a wise media plan will be disastrous for any government," and adds: "failure to plan means planning for failure." (781 words) 
Sharq 
24 July 
Commentary by "Middle East expert" Sabah Zangeneh: "The Analysis of a Threat." Zangeneh says that there is a widespread scenario being implemented in the Middle East, adding that the root of these issues and events can be traced to the "victories in Al-Qusayr," which he says "disturbed the balance of power" in Syria. He continues: "Based on this disturbance in the balance of power, they [the West] tried to return the conditions to what they were previously, even to conditions prior to the Geneva 2 meeting." He says that, after providing advanced weapons to the Syrian opposition groups, US senators suggested that the United States play an active military role in Syria, "but this was met with General Dempsey's response that creating a no-fly-zone required hundreds of military aircraft and $1 billion per month." He concludes: "Apparently, the Syrian region is expecting serious issues," and "ultimately, the continuation of the war of attrition will be more intensely supported in Syria." (p 1; 483 words) 
Commentary by university faculty member Mansur Mo'azzami: "Sanctions on the Oil Industry: The Musts and Must Nots." Mo'azzami presents a brief list of solutions for eliminating the sanctions imposed on the Iranian oil industry by "realistically observing" the current conditions. He says the sanctions have caused a reduction in oil income, which, in turn, has slowed the implementation of projects such as those in the South Pars gas field, and adds: "Given the current conditions, even if the ongoing projects are completed -- despite the time elapsed and high costs -- we are forced to choose between not producing from these fields and reducing production from other fields." He says that sanctions on some specific items that are needed in the oil industry have led to problems, such as the inability to "acquire masts and other items needed for drilling," which, in turn, prevented "the possibility of the launch of all of South Pars during recent years." He points to the reduction in exports and production from some wells, he says: "The negative effect of such actions could cause the production objectives to not be realized once the sanctions are lifted." (p 1, 5; 478 words) 
Editorial by professor Yusef Mowla'i: "The 11th Government and Sanctions." Mowla'i says that, after the Cold War, the UNSC presented a "very broad interpretation" of peace and international security, by which it imposed sanctions on many countries and groups, such as Iraq, Iran, Al-Qa'idah, and the Taliban. He adds that the United States and the EU have also used such issues as human rights violations and nuclear activities to impose sanctions on countries. He says: "Similar to approving them, repealing and ending sanctions is a political process," and "the UNSC's method of repealing sanctions shows to be complex and slow." He continues: "Practically, unless the prescribed goals are realized, the UNSC would not approve an end to sanctions." Regarding the United States' "unilateral" sanctions, he says: "In some cases, the president can repeal sanctions after reporting to specific committees." Regarding direct negotiations between Iran and the United States, he says: "Iran is not opposed to the principle of negotiations, but is skeptical of America's goodwill," and that "America must take effective and practical steps toward repealing sanctions to prove its goodwill." He adds: "But the repealing of the sanctions imposed by the UNSC involves a very complex political-legal and technical process and we must not expect them to be removed during the 11th government's period." He says: "America, as a lead player, could play a constructive role in the nuclear case and the gradual removal of sanctions." He concludes: "Without success on the international arena, it will be very difficult to eliminate economic dilemmas on the domestic arena." (p 1, 14; 1,410 words) 
Siyasat-e Ruz 
24 July 2013 
Commentary by Mohammad Safari: "The Consequences of Placing Hezbollah on the Terrorist List." Safari discusses the recent EU decision to include Hezbollah's military wing in its list of terrorist organizations and he criticizes this act on various levels. He talks about Israel and says: "Until now, this regime has remained standing with the support of these countries [the West,] and, if one day, the supporting hand of the West is removed from the Zionist regime, that day will be the day of this regime's certain downfall." Safari also discusses the role of the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United States in supporting "terrorist groups" opposed to the "legitimate Syrian Government," and writes: "It can simply be said that any group, party, or organization which does not function within the framework of goals set out by Europe and America will be identified as dangerous groups and will be placed on their black lists." He also says that this action by the EU will have ramifications for Iran's relationship with European countries and may even affect the P5+1 negotiations, and writes: "This action by Europe will also affect Europe's relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran and will also possibility affect the atmosphere of nuclear negotiations." Safari concludes: "These actions and behaviours are the same signs of dishonesty that the supreme leader of the revolution refers to." (570 words) 
Tehran-e Emruz 
Report on interviews with a number of MPs over "the ifs and buts of increasing the price of energy carriers" by Homa Kabiri: "Ambiguity in Energy Carriers' Price Increase." Kabiri says that, according to the budget bill of the current Iranian year that started 21 March 2013, the price of the energy carriers should increase, so that the government will be able to use the resulting revenue as part of the government earnings in the budget. Commenting on this issue, Gholamreza Kateb, spokesperson of the Majlis Planning, Budget, and Audit Committee, tells the daily: "If the government only increases in the rates of two energy carriers of gasoline and CNG by 30 percent, the requirements of the law will be met and there will be no need to increase the prices of all energy carriers." While Kateb urges a prompt increase in the price of energy carriers, Amir-Abbas Soltani, member of the Majlis Energy Committee, says: "There is no need to implement this law; its implementation should be adjusted with the people's economic condition, because one more price increase will cause a new shock to the households' economy and worsen their living condition." Kabiri ends his report by saying: "It seems that increasing the price of rationed gasoline to 550 tumans [about $0.21] and subsidized gasoline to 1,000 tumans [about 0.4 dollars] will resolve the government's revenue problems." She adds: "However, it seems that the 11th government should take all the aspects and conditions into consideration and plan a rational increase in the price of energy carriers." (1,316 words) 
Commentary by Mohammad Sadeqolhoseyni: "Analysis of the Europe's Action Against Hezbollah." Discussing the recent EU decision to add the military wing of Hezbollah to the list of terrorist organizations, Sadeqolhoseyni says the reason behind this action is the support the Hezbollah provides for the Syrian Army in its conflict with the Syrian rebels: "In fact, the Hezbollah of Lebanon, alongside the Syrian Army, managed to recapture the important city of Al-Qusayr, because of which the Westerners decided to take revenge upon Hezbollah and add this party to the terrorism list." He concludes by saying: "This action by the EU sent an inappropriate and dangerous message to the region and raises question about the EU's legitimacy. Moreover, the main reason behind this move is to strike a blow on the axis of resistance, because what should be noted is that Hezbollah does not basically have specific military and political wings." (419 words) 
Negative Selection: Iran Online, Khorasan Online, Mardom Salari Online 
Sources: Iranian press highlights, in Persian, 24 Jul 13 
