Martin's mom asks for law change
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. - The mother of slain Florida teenager Trayvon Martin and a prominent black lawyers' organization are keeping up the pressure for repeal of "stand your ground" self-defense laws. 
Sybrina Fulton joined the call Monday with top officials of the National Bar Association, which is holding its annual convention in Miami Beach. Fulton says she believes neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman got away with murder when he shot Martin in Sanford last year.
Zimmerman was acquitted of second-degree murder earlier this month. He claimed he was acting in self-defense when he shot Martin because the unarmed 17-year-old attacked him. Many critics have said they believe Zimmerman profiled Martin because he was black.
Florida lawmakers say it is unlikely the state's "stand your ground" law will be repealed.
Federal officials are reviewing whether to charge Zimmerman with violating Martin's civil rights.
Philadelphia row
home collapses
PHILADELPHIA - A Philadelphia row house collapsed and police say six people are injured.
The collapse happened late Monday morning in the middle of a block of connected brick homes. Police say witnesses reported hearing an explosion.
Bricks showered onto the small south Philadelphia street and nearly covered a car parked out front. The houses on either side of the destroyed home were partly standing but a Philadelphia police department spokeswoman said they were badly damaged.
Gas and electrical utility crews were trying to determine what caused the collapse. Rescue crews were combing through the rubble to see if anyone else was trapped.
New Mexico man
-hoots brother
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. - A 74-year-old New Mexico man has been arrested after deputies say he shot both his brother and an 11-year-old girl in the head.
KRQE-TV reports Ivan Benavidez was arrested Sunday near a casino west of Albuquerque following the afternoon shooting.
Bernalillo County deputies say Benavidez shot his brother on a dirt road north of the Route 66 Casino following an argument. Deputies say the victim's granddaughter had a grazing gunshot wound to the head.
Officials say both victims are expected to survive.
Benavidez is charged with aggravated battery with a deadly weapon and child abuse.
Film examines
Kennedy killing
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. - Weeks before the 50th anniversary of President John F. Kennedy's assassination this fall, ReelzChannel will take another look at the killing in a docudrama that suggests a Secret Service agent fired one of the bullets that felled Kennedy.
"JFK: The Smoking Gun" is based on the work of retired Australian police Detective Colin McLaren, who spent four years combing through evidence from Kennedy's death on Nov. 22, 1963.
The two-hour docudrama airs Nov. 3 in the U.S., Canada and Australia. It suggests that agent George Hickey fired one of the bullets that hit Kennedy. Hickey, who is now dead, was riding in the car behind Kennedy's limo that day.
The program is ReelzChannel's second Kennedy-related offering. In 2011, the cable channel aired "The Kennedys" after History Channel dropped the miniseries.
COMPILED FROM WIRE REPORTS
