Here is another reason why I have absolutely no interest in living in the United States.
Unlike my parents, who used to spend their retirement winters as snowbirds in Florida and think everything is better in the U.S., I really have no yearning for it other than a quick in and out. Typical, nice place to visit; wouldn't want to live there.
Recently, George Zimmerman was found not guilty of second-degree murder in the death of unarmed TrayvonMartin, who was shot after a fight broke out between the two. 
Zimmerman, an overzealous neighbourhood watch person who was suspicious of Martin, was told by EMS to wait for police. Instead, he confronted Martin and a fight ensued.
Zimmerman was losing and apparently feared for his life. So he pulled out his gun and shot Martin in the chest. A 17-year-old has lost his life, a security guard now fears for his.
This is not about this case as much as it is about the legal rule that revolves around it - Florida's "stand your ground law."
The reason officials asked for calm before the verdict was read was not necessarily because one side may be angry with the outcome. It was largely due to the fact that most legal minds knew under this law, a not-guilty verdict, was correct.
One of those minds belongs to Sherri DeWitt, of DeWitt Law in Florida, who said on CHML the jurors applied the state law: "Stand your ground, and under that law George Zimmerman was protecting himself." Most in this country have a hard time understanding that; many in the U.S. do too. Which makes one ask, then how did it pass?
The Orlando attorney said, in layman's terms, under the law: "If you fear death or great bodily harm, or if someone is committing a felony against you, you have the right to protect yourself. Period. You don't have to retreat. You don't have to use other alternatives. As long as you feel in danger of bodily harm, you can shoot."
She adds some may believe Zimmerman brought a gun to a fist fight and that may be true. But if he reasonably believed he was going to endure great bodily harm or death under the "stand you ground law," he had the absolute right to use a gun to defend himself.
This is much different than using proportional force, emphasizing it does not have to be reasonable force.
Many citizens think the system didn't work and the Floridian hopes it opens dialogue to better improve it.
"Discussion is needed about how minorities are treated within the justice system. Dialogue is needed about cultural differences in society and how that may affect how people react during a stressful situation," DeWitt says.
She says in Florida, young black men don't dial 911 if they need help. They don't trust the system. It's a given. "The discussion has to happen, why is that in our culture?"
She concludes, "It's a real, real tragedy. Because TrayvonMartin was scared, his response was to sucker punch George Zimmerman to protect himself in some way, and, unfortunately, it led to his death."
So is this about Wild West laws or deeply rooted racial tension? I say a toxic combination of both.
In Canada, we often complain our laws favour the criminal over the victim and refer to the U.S. when talking reform. In Canada, at least Zimmerman would be in jail for this crime, albeit he would be out on day passes in no time.
An email to my show reveals the complexity of the debate. Wasn't TrayvonMartin standing his ground when he apparently attacked Zimmerman? Didn't Martin feel threatened? Wasn't Martin defending himself if the facts are true?
I wonder if Martin had been carrying a gun and shot Zimmerman, would he have gotten away with murder?
The Scott Thompson Show airs weekdays
noon-3 p.m. on News/Talk 900 CHML. www.ScottThompsonTalk.com
