PEOPLE IN Point Breeze - hell, people all over - are tired of living with violence, tired of milling around at vigils, tired of wondering when things will change for the better. 
 That's Anton Moore's theory, anyway. 
 And judging by the scores of people who crowded into Wharton Square Park last night, Moore is on to something. 
 Unity in the Community, a local nonprofit that Moore, 27, founded four years ago, held a packed peace rally in the park as part of the organization's second annual Peace Week festivities. 
 Last night's rally, which was attended by a number of local pols - including state Sen. Anthony Williams, City Councilman Kenyatta Johnson and state Reps. Jordan Harris and Brian Sims - ended with a boisterous march from Wharton Square, at 24th and Reed streets, to Stinger Square Park, at 32nd and Reed in Grays Ferry.
 "People are tired of being tired. They want something to happen; they want kids to have a safe place to grow up," Moore said.
 Earlier this year, he received a $10,000 grant from the Philly chapter of Black Male Engagement (BMe), which is supported by the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation. 
 Moore said he put the money toward adding more entertainment and events to Peace Week, which tonight will include a party for teens hosted by Power 99 FM at the Dixon House on 20th Street near Mifflin. 
 Other events this week will include a peace conference and a college-readiness seminar for local youth. 
 "Everybody wants peace," Moore said. "It's not just an African-American thing. It's a white thing, a Hispanic thing. Nobody wants to get shot!" 
 Ajor Brown, of 20th and Christian streets, said she found out about the peace rally from a church mailing. 
 "I sent an email to all of my friends to see if they would want to get involved in light of the Trayvon Martin case," said Brown, 32. "I said, 'This is where the rubber meets the road. This is where we can start to make a difference in our community.' "
 Brown said the show of neighborhood unity was long overdue. "I'm glad the community is coming out and supporting [Anton]."
 Johnson noted that he regularly turned up at Wharton Square Park as a teen for vigils in memory of youths who had died from gun violence. 
 "I want to put a challenge to every young man that's here today," Johnson said. "We have a responsibility to make sure that we are strong role models for these young people that are here. If we don't guide them, the streets will."
 For more information on the events planned for this week, visit unityinthecommunity215.com.
@dgambacorta
