On Friday, President Barack Obama sought to explain the anguish of African-Americans over the not-guilty verdict in the trial of George Zimmerman for the fatal shooting of an unarmed teen, 17-year-old TrayvonMartin.
Making a surprise appearance in the White House press room, and drawing from his own experiences, the president spoke at length about the painful assumptions that often are made about young black males.
He spoke candidly about how, before he became a U.S. senator, he was followed as he shopped in department stores and heard "the locks click on the doors of cars" as he walked across the street.
He noted that while African-Americans are not naive about the disproportionate involvement of young black males in the criminal justice system - both as victims and perpetrators - they also know the history and context for that, and are pained when that fact is used to treat their sons differently.
"A lot of African-American boys are painted with a broad brush," the president said.
In response to the president's statements, TrayvonMartin's parents said, in a statement, "We seek a future when a child can walk down the street and not worry that others see him as dangerous because of the color of his skin or the clothes on his back."
Even as the nation roiled over the verdict in the shooting death of one black teen, Lancaster County was celebrating the heroism of another: Temar Boggs, 15, a soon-to-be freshman at McCaskey High School.
Boggs was helping to move a couch for an elderly neighbor in Lancaster Township when someone asked him if he'd seen a 5-year-old girl.
Boggs and a half-dozen of his friends joined the search for the girl.
Determined to find her, Boggs and a friend, Chris Garcia, 13, rode bicycles around the Gable Park neighborhood in pursuit of what they suspected might be her abductor's car.
Boggs drew close enough to the car to see a little girl inside.
The abductor - who, according to police, later would be identified as convicted sex offender Harold Leroy Herr - looked at Boggs and Garcia, stopped his car, and pushed the little girl out.
The child ran toward Boggs, and told him she needed to "see my mommy."
As Garcia rode his bicycle, and steered the one Boggs had been riding, Boggs carried the little girl to safety.
In an interview with this newspaper, Boggs described himself as "just a normal person who did a thing that anybody else would do."
He is indeed, in many ways, a normal kid. He plays football and basketball and participates in track. He likes to bike and skateboard. He has a mother who said she's tried to raise him "the right way ... to help others."
As the president observed Friday, young black males often are assumed to be threatening.
The content of Temar Boggs' character is one reason - but far from the only reason - we should cease making such assumptions.
