Turkish dailies covered on Thursday Turkish premier's defense of Turkish police's role during Gezi Park events, world artists' letter to Erdogan criticizing handling of protests, election threshold statements by deputy premie ANKARA AnadoluAgency does not verify these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy. Turkish dailies covered on Thursday thesecurity summit in Ankara gathered byTurkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to evaluate the claims about Democratic Union Party (PYD), a Syrian offshoot of terrorist organization PKK's preparations to announce autonomy in north of Syria, Erdogan's tough responses against the criticisms of the police about their handling of Gezi Park protests,famous world artists' letter to Prime MinisterErdogan condemningTurkish authorities' heavy-handed crackdown on the Gezi Parkprotests, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc's statements about the election threshold,allegations of Bashar Assad's bargaining with Israel to establish an Alawite state in the Mediterranean strip, US President Barack Obama's suspending of F-16 airplanes sale to Egypt. All Turkish dailies coveredthe suddengathering of3.5 hours long security summit at the prime ministryby Erdogan with the participation of Chief of General Staff Necdet Ozel,Undersecretary of National Intelligence Organization Hakan Fidan and several ministers. Daily YENI SAFAK headlined "That flag will behauled down", and published that the summit, during which the mobility at the border was covered, PYD's raising its own flag on the official buildings in Ras Al Ayn, itsroad map to announce its autonomy andthe support of Kurdish administration in north of Iraqwerediscussed.  
Daily HABERTURK published that the participants shared the information thatPYD flag will be hauled down, houses in Turkish town of Ceylanpinar at Syrian border was evacuated. Daily AKSAM titled "No permission for autonomous region", and published that the meeting underlined that a fait accompli would not be allowed about autonomy. Daily TARAF titled "Dialogue with PYD via Ocalan", and published that Ankara'a best alternative on the table was to "try to control PYD through Ocalan and Qandil who were already contacted due to solution process," while an intervention to PYD was the weakest possibility on table duringyesterday's summit. - Erdogan's defense of Turkish police Daily STAR headlined "Protect your people, not the state", and quoted Erdogan at an iftar organized by the riot police on Wednesdayas saying "In progressed democracies, police existto protect the individual's rights, not the state's. If you protect the state against the people, it would become cruel." Daily SABAH published that Erdogan said, "Western police's behaviors towards their citizens fall behind us."Daily YENI SAFAK titled "Nation's headlines determine our agenda", quoting Erdogan. Responding the criticisms to the police's handling of Gezi Park protests, "We are not bothered by the headlines of the newspapers, the nations' headlines concern us. Those who give advices to us, should first make self-criticism," said Erdogan, referring tomurdering 17 year-old African-AmericanTrayvon Martin. - World artists' letter to Erdogan Daily TARAF titled "A very toughletter to Erdogan", whileDaily RADIKAL explained thatartists and scholars, including celebrities known for their activism, such as Sean Penn, Susan Sarandon, Ben Kingsley and movie director David Lynch, have condemned the Turkish authorities' heavy-handed crackdown on the Gezi Park protests in Turkey in a full-page letter published July 24 in the British broadsheet The Times and addressed to Erdogan. Daily HURRIYET published that 30 names from Western art world criticized PM Erdogan because of excessive use of force against protesters during Gezi Park events. - Election threshold statements by Deputy PM Daily VATAN headlined "Threshold endures", and published that Turkish Deputy PM Bulent Arinc said his final word about pulling down of the election threshold, that is, it would remain the same as 10 percent. Daily TARAF headlined "A package of democracy awaits the prime minister" and published that the democratization package directed at solution process was finalized, and would be presented to Erdogan after Friday's final meeting.Daily MILLIYETquoted Arinc as saying, "For stability, we will protect the threshold, but we can take steps to strenghthen justice for representation." - Assad's Alawite state bargaining with Israel Daily YENI SAFAK published The Guardian's story that Bashar Assad sent an envoy to former foreign minister Avignor Liebermannto convince Israel notto obstruct the establishment of Alawite state on Mediterranean coast. Referring to The Guardian's story, YENI SAFAK published that asource aware of the talks said that Lieberman had not rebuffed the approach but had first sought information on the whereabouts of a missing Israeli airman shot down over Lebanon, Ron Arad, as well as three Israeli soldiers captured in the Lebanese village of Sultan Yacoub in 1982, and the remains of Eli Cohen, an Israeli spy intelligence officer who was caught and executed in Damascus. Daily STAR titled "Dirty bargaining" and published that Liebermann did not object to The Guardian's claims, and gave place to the newspaper's predictions that Assad could initiate etnic cleansing in Sunni areas. - Suspension of US F-16 to Egypt Some dailies also covered the decision by US Defense Department to suspend the pre-planned sale of F-16 airplanes to Egypt.Daily MILLIYET headlined "Postponment to F-16s", publishing that despite going on with military aid to Egypt, the US decided to suspend the sale of F-16's, referring to declaration ofUS Defense Department spokesperson George Little.Daily AKSAM published that the US suspended the sale of four F-16 to Egypt, quoting Pentagon as saying "Because of the current situation in Egypt, we believe delivery of F-16 was not right at the moment", and added the decision was made unanimously. englishnews@aa.com.tr
