Florida Gov. Rick Scott has rejected a request that he remove State Attorney Angela Corey from the Michael Dunn/Jordan Davis case.
The Florida Civil Rights Association sent a letter to Scott on Wednesday saying a special prosecutor should be appointed in place of Corey because she has lost all credibility with the public. 
In an email to the Times-Union Thursday afternoon, Scott spokeswoman Jackie Schutz said the governor would not be appointing a special prosecutor. A representative for the Davis family also said they were not consulted about the request and don't want Corey off the case.
Police said Dunn, 46, who is white, shot into a Dodge Durango with four black teens in a dispute about loud music. Only 17-year-old Davis was hit and killed.
Dunn is charged with first-degree murder and three counts of attempted murder. Corey is personally prosecuting the case.
In the letter Florida Civil Rights Association president J. Willie David III said Corey has shown her office lacks credibility, is untrustworthy and does not hold the public confidence needed to prosecute in good faith.
Jackelyn Barnard, Corey's spokeswoman, did not respond to a phone call or email for comment.
Corey's unsuccessful prosecution of George Zimmerman in Sanford has created racial tension, David said. Zimmerman, who is Hispanic, shot and killed 17-year-old Trayvon Martin and was acquitted this month on the basis of self-defense.
Corey was the special prosecutor in that case and was criticized for the way the case was handled. Her office still faces potential sanctions in that case because of allegations that evidence was withheld from defense attorneys.
The Davis family does not support what the civil rights organization is asking.
"The Florida Civil Rights Association never called us, sought our input and yet went to the media with their opinion of what is best for Jordan," said attorney John Phillips, who represents the family.
A trial date has been set for September, but Dunn attorney Cory Strolla said at a recent hearing that he would not be ready until February because of all the information and witnesses he still had to go over.
Thursday he said he had not read the letter asking for Corey's removal and could not comment on it.
David also said Corey's credibility had been hurt by the allegations of two former employees, Ben Kruidbos and Julie Lyncker.
Kruidbos was the information technology director who was fired by Corey after he testified last month about being concerned prosecutors did not turn over information to Zimmerman's defense team. His attorney has said they plan to sue Corey for wrongful termination.
Corey's office also faces potential sanctions in Lyncker's wrongful termination lawsuit after the State Attorney's Office turned over key email evidence the weekend before a jury was supposed to be picked. The case was indefinitely continued to give Lyncker's attorneys time to examine the emails and make sure there wasn't any other missing evidence.
Lyncker was a clerk in the Nassau County office who says she was fired after she complained about the actions of her supervisor. Attorneys for Corey said Lyncker engaged in inappropriate behavior at the office.
Larry Hannan: (904) 359-4470
