With a mixture of terror and fascination, we watched with much of North America the events of the George Zimmerman trial. Like many, we were shocked and saddened when the news broke of Zimmerman's acquittal. How could this man take the life of an innocent teenager and get away with it? 
 Did Zimmerman's past encounters with the law, in which he reportedly assaulted a police officer and had a restraining order taken out against him by his common-law spouse, not demonstrate that he was prone to violence and aggressive behaviour? Did he not bear any responsibility for directly disobeying the commands of law enforcement when he chose to follow 17- year-old Trayvon Martin around the Florida gated community? Even if one were to fully believe the defense's version of events, whereby Martin confronted and then assaulted Zimmerman in the four minutes between the 911 call and the shooting, did the heavier and presumably stronger Zimmerman not bear some responsibility for electing to fatally shoot the youngster, rather than some other less lethal alternative? Not according to Florida's Stand your Ground law. Signed into law by Governor Jeb Bush in 2005, Florida Statute 776.013 states that a person "has no duty to retreat and has the right to stand his or her ground" if he or she thinks deadly force is necessary to prevent death, great bodily harm or commission of a forcible felony like robbery. Unsurprisingly, this has led to some very interesting defenses in Florida's courts over the past eight years. An investigative piece in the Tampa Bay Times analyzed nearly 200 Stand your Ground cases, and found that almost 70 per cent of the time the defendant goes free (59 per cent of the time if the victim is white, 73 per cent if the victim is black). Furthermore, defense attorneys have been found to use the law in ways not intended by legislators. In nearly a third of cases, for instance, the defendant initiated the fight by shooting an unarmed person or actively pursuing the victim. Perhaps most frighteningly, a genuine analysis of Stand Your Ground is not possible because when police and prosecutors decide not to press charges, they don't always keep the records that led to their decisions. Martin Luther King Jr. once said that injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We hope that law makers across the globe will take this quotation to heart, and do their best to prevent Stand Your Ground-style laws from being adopted in other U.S. and international jurisdictions.
