July 29--YORK, Pa. -- Eric Kirkland approached a group of people sitting in a York park and knocked on an empty chair like it was a door.
"Good afternoon, good afternoon," he said. "How is everybody?"
He wanted their help with a project -- to preserve the stories of a generation of black families that moved to York decades ago. 
"We've been collecting a lot of pictures and stuff from back in the day," said the 60-year-old Kirkland. "But we have so much history that we don't have recorded."
Dorothy Sweeney, 79, told him her name. One of her children added that the maiden name was Hawkins.
Kirkland was surprised to learn that Sweeney's mother was the late Rhoda Hawkins, a former
Codorus Street resident and baker known for her pies and hot rolls.
"She owned that store that was right here, the restaurant?" Kirkland said. "OK. I didn't know. See, I'm learning already."
Then he continued.
"Where was your dad born at?"
The exchange took place Saturday at the second annual Codorus Street Reunion, an event that celebrated more than 90 years of black history in York and looked to the future.
Kirkland said black people, including his grandparents, who left the south and came to York were pioneers, looking for a better way of life for their families.
Kirkland said he previously worked as an information technology project manager for the state and is now semi-retired. He works
part-time as a youth counselor. He said he's hoping stories from the struggles of the people who moved to York will help the next generation.
Many of the people gathered at Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Park Saturday reflected on old times in the neighborhood and changes in the city.
"Everybody was one big happy family," said Rosetta M. Hawkins, 67, who grew up on Codorus Street.
She thinks drugs and violence have made the city more dangerous.
But she hasn't left. She lives several blocks away from where she grew up.
"It's all I know," she said with a laugh. "It's where I've lived all my life."
Eric's 64-year-old brother, Jeff, lives on the 400 block of West Market Street, an area known as Doctor's Row.
Jeff Kirkland said that was an area he wasn't allowed to go to when he was younger because of segregation.
Jeff Kirkland said people often pay attention to racial issues after a tragedy or major incident, such as the fatal shooting of Florida teenager Trayvon Martin last year and the recent acquittal of George Zimmerman.
"A week or two later, people are back into the doldrums," he said. "They're back into the apathy."
He said he was disappointed with the number of eligible black voters who turned out to vote in the May primary. He called it a historic moment, where the city's first elected black female mayor was challenged by the first black female York City Council member.
Jeff
Kirkland said he thinks one way to make progress is to connect young black people with some of the people who grew up on Codorus Street decades ago.
"People are dying off. So we see an extra urgency ... to have our young people interact with some of our older people," he said. "...They might absorb some of those values, and some of those traditions, some of the culture that we have."
Eric Kirkland asked Sweeney and two of her children questions about their family for more than five minutes.
Then he told them he didn't want to tire them out. He said he'd follow up with them later, and he was thinking about doing video interviews with older people.
"Because ... once that history's gone, man, you just can't get it," he said.
They chatted for a few minutes about World War I, speaking French and how people used to hunt groundhogs and other animals along a creek.
Eric Kirkland stood up, and started moving to the next family.
Then Sweeney spoke up."My dad helped dig the foundation to build a church over there, too," she said.
She was referring to Emmanuel Church of God in Christ, which was originally built on Codorus Street.
Eric Kirkland sat back down.
One of Sweeney's children told him that she is an original member of the church, which is now on the 800 block of East Princess Street.
Eric Kirkland started writing that down.
@edmahonreporter; 771-2089
Tracking families
A souvenir booklet that was prepared for the second annual Codorus Street Reunion contains information for more than 70 Codorus Street addresses from 1919 through 1961.
Read more
Codorus Street Reunion set for July 27
___ (c)2013 York Daily Record (York, Pa.) Visit York Daily Record (York, Pa.) at www.ydr.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
