July 24--YORK, Pa. -- Tina Hunter of York talks about the racism she sees in the community.
Hunter, who is white, said her fiance, who is black, will be followed and questioned when they walk in a store. She said she never experienced racism until she started dating someone of a different race. 
She also has read the comments about the killing of Trayvon Martin and the jury's acquittal of the shooter, George Zimmerman.
"It's a shame to know we live in such a racist community," she said after a community forum Tuesday night.
The forum, hosted by the hosted by the York NAACP and the Black Ministers' Association, involved a community discussion about racial profiling, the killing of youths and the attack on Constitutional Rights at the Crispus Attucks Community Center in York.
The 21/2 hour discussion attended by more than 50 people also
involved classism, gender and how no one is perfect.
"My question on this to everybody is: ... What are we going to do about it?" Hunter said. "When you see a racial injustice or something, do you speak on it?"
Some participants described how they witnessed defendants being treated differently based on race. Some talked about social issues, such as how the state is spending more money on prisons than education.
Participants talked about the importance of taking steps, such as voting and serving on a jury if called.
The Rev. Darnell Bowman, pastor of Unity Church of God in Christ in York, said racism is real, and it doesn't matter that he is a pastor.
"Somehow, we've got to make a difference," he said. "We've got to make the difference in ourselves, and in the way we train our children."
Lesia Richards of York said what gets her fired up is that people see somebody walking down the street and that person is assumed to be the bad guy. And that person is not, she said.
"Like Michael Jackson said: Look at the man in the mirror," she said. "It starts with you."
___ (c)2013 York Daily Record (York, Pa.) Visit York Daily Record (York, Pa.) at www.ydr.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
