Say 'no' to tax increase
Regarding the story, "Volusia manager pitches tax rate increase," of July 13:
I guess Volusia County Manager Jim Dinneen and the County Council members don't get it.
We are the second-highest taxed county in the state of Florida.
If the county's property tax rate increases anywhere from 3.7 percent to 7.4 percent, it will discourage people from choosing our county as a place to live, and create an exodus when people can no longer afford to stay. I can see the headlines in the upcoming months: Volusia County, the highest-taxed county in Florida. 
What a distinction!
TIM COOPER
Ormond-by-the-Sea
Remembering a friend
Thank you for the follow-up article "Fatal crash: Biker didn't slow."
Yes, John Ward was a biker -- yet he was so much more to those whose lives he touched by his actions.
I am fortunate to be a part of Audrey and John's lives, and shall always try to live and be guided by their love.
JON STAUFFER
DeBary
Florida's shame on display
Only in Florida would the aggressor in a confrontation walk away a free man after killing an unarmed minor.
Only in Florida would a woman fearing for her life, standing her ground, but not killing her aggressor, go to prison.
We should all be ashamed of our Florida government, all branches: the legislative, the executive, the judicial.
KATHLEEN D. BARTOS
New Smyrna Beach
Please, no agitators here
Exactly why is it that Al Sharpton organized a rally here? While not everyone agrees with the verdict in the Zimmerman/Martin trial, the people in Central Florida have been respectful and civil regarding the outcome. We do not need an agitator like him.
George Zimmerman was declared not guilty of breaking any laws in the state of Florida. No more taxpayer money needs to be wasted on a case that has already been resolved. It is sad for the Martin family to lose a son, and politically incorrect to speak ill of the dead. The jury has said that not one thing George Zimmerman did was a crime under Florida law. If Al Sharpton doesn't like the laws of this state, he doesn't need to come here. No loss!
CONNIE COLBY
Ormond Beach
A final reckoning
Another travesty of justice has just happened here. George Zimmerman is the third person to have gotten away with a killing in the past two years.
When the day of judgment comes, no silver-tongued lawyers will be able to intervene. I can hardly wait.
HARRIET S. HILL
New Smyrna Beach
Why single this case out?
Regarding the TrayvonMartin case, I think that Cal Thomas' column in The News-Journal earlier this week sums it all up. He wrote:
"Your view would be reinforced by a case in Georgia in which four African-American teenagers beat a 36-year-old white man as he emerged from a gas station convenience store. While trying to escape, the man stumbled into the middle lane of a highway where he was struck by a car and killed. The Marietta Daily Journal reported that the four are charged with felony murder, aggravated assault and violation of the Georgia Street Gang Act. The incident occurred two weeks ago, but I have seen no national media coverage."
What has happened to our news reporting journalists? God help us all.
JOHN H. HUMISTON
Daytona Beach Shores
Pressing a divisive issue
As a staunch supporter of President Obama, I'm conflicted on what to make of his public statements about the TrayvonMartin case and racism in America.
We all have the God-given right to our own opinions and the right to protest peacefully. That said, personalities such as Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson are digging a hole that might be hard to climb out of. If one of these so-called protests turns violent and innocent people are hurt or killed, who will be to blame? That's why I'm conflicted with our president almost picking sides on this troubling issue facing our great nation.
KYLE KELEHER
South Daytona
Same result, different response
One question: Where were the rallies for justice and mass hysteria when O.J. Simpson was found not guilty?
HARRY WINTEMBERG
Ormond Beach
Enough trial coverage
How much longer are we going to be subjected to this Zimmerman trial torture? Enough already!
There is so much more important news in the world. Can't the TV stations put that on the back burner for awhile?
I used to watch Channel 13 news. They give the gist of a story and send you to the web page for the rest of it. Not so with the Zimmerman story. It seems as though they are trying to rile the people up by keeping the story on the air, day and night.
I know for a fact that many people besides my wife and I are sick of it.
ROBERT WOOD
Holly Hill
Education vote revealing
Last week, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on HR 5, a bill that would greatly diminish the federal role in K-12 education, increase state and local authority over schools and freeze education spending at sequestration levels for several years.
This passed in a party-line vote and went to the U.S. Senate. Rep. Corrine Brown, D-Jacksonville, voted "no," while Rep. Ron DeSantis, R-Ponte Vedra Beach, and Rep. John Mica, R-Winter Park, voted "yes."
What does this mean in terms of their political ideology beliefs? The Democrats continue to believe in federal government control of every aspect of our lives, to include the indoctrination of our children via federally mandated school programs, while the Republicans continue to believe that the best government is local government. While many citizens have become both used to and dependent upon federal control of their lives, I argue that it is not the best path for a free society. I applaud the House Republican majority for faithfully representing the people.
PAUL CLINE Jr.
Port Orange
