I was glad to be a part of the peaceful "Cry for Justice" rally on Saturday. It was great that so many people came out to show their support for justice and equality. We prayed, we sang spirituals, and we cried to God for help in uniting our communities and ending the violence that threatens to tear us apart. After leaving such a peaceful event, I was disappointed when I turned on Facebook and read comments others left about this event. I was discouraged to see so much misunderstanding about the purpose of the rally and even outright anger at those who attended. The purpose of the rally was simply to show solidarity with those who believe in treating all people equally and fairly. During the rally we prayed and mourned not only for Trayvon Martin, but for all victims of gun violence, including the gang violence that plagues places such as Chicago. 
 The George Zimmerman case is over and we don't fault the jurors. The law required a "not guilty" verdict if there was any sliver of doubt and we understand that. The fault is not with the jurors or with the outcome of the trial, but with laws that encourage people to take justice into their own hands. Although Stand Your Ground laws were not used in this case, the existence of those laws encourages people to use guns first and ask questions later. So one purpose of the rally was to speak out publicly against the Stand Your Ground laws that exist in many states, including Indiana.
 Even more importantly, I joined with my neighbors and friends at this rally to take a stand against racial inequality and the racial profiling which still sadly goes on in our own backyard. It's a sad reality that some people who see a black teenager walking through their neighborhood in the rain automatically think he's "suspicious" and should be followed, but those same people when they see a white teenager walking through the rain just think "he's lost" and offer him a ride home.
 Even though Zimmerman is Hispanic, he had a history of making many calls to the police and the log of those calls shows that he overwhelmingly called when he saw black males walking through his neighborhood. So there is a question as to whether or not Zimmerman profiled Martin based on his skin color, and some of us do think the U.S. Department of Justice is obligated to at least examine whether or not racial profiling was used in this case.
 However, whether Zimmerman is brought up on new charges or not is almost irrelevant. The point is that all of us - regardless of our race, ethnicity or religion - have a need to come together and say that we know the world isn't fair, but that we want to work toward making it more fair. This rally gave people an opportunity to stand together and say that Martin Luther King Jr.'s dream is still alive and we as a community can work together to make it a  reality. As King himself said, "Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter."
 Kelly Pickell is a South Bend resident.
