The shackles basically came off Friday when President Barack Obama delivered his "TrayvonMartin could have been me" remarks about the ugly black experience in the United States and urged his fellow Americans to acknowledge its reality.
It was a remarkably atypical statement from Obama, the ultracautious, "post-racial" president who had shied away from any discussion of race throughout his presidency. But the more remarkable thing about the statement is that he delivered it not just as president, but as a black man. And he did it at a time when passions were inflamed and the country was deeply divided over the acquittal of George Zimmerman for killing unarmed black teenager TrayvonMartin. It is the kind of speech political aides are loath to counsel, and Obama would never have dared make the remarks in his first term, fearful as he was about alienating the voters in Middle America who made him the first black president. 
But I suspect that deep in some corner of his heart, Obama knew the narrative about a post-racial America just wasn't going to hold water for long. At some point, Obama knew he would have to address the volatile issue of race relations, and in death, TrayvonMartin liberated him and helped him find his voice. There could never be a better case than the one about the tragic death of this black teenager to open the door for a conversation.
By and large, young black men, in the U.S. especially, have two images: they are either sports and entertainment icons, or they are gun-toting thugs. They make millions of dollars and flaunt it, or they gun each other down. There is usually very little middle ground between the two narratives. But in TrayvonMartin, you have a case that defies conventional wisdom. An unarmed teenager on his way home in the rain and breaking no laws, is profiled by a white adult, followed, and in the ensuing altercation, ends up dead. The man who did the chasing and the shooting is then set free by a jury. The outrage in the black community is palpable, and if Obama was ever going to speak on the volatile issue of race relations, here was his chance. He took it with a vengeance in explaining why the verdict hit such a raw nerve in the black community.
He spoke candidly, fearlessly, taking on what would normally be taboo subjects. He was effective because he spoke from the heart in a very personal way. He spoke about racial profiling and of his experiences as a young black man. He acknowledged the high crime rate among young African-Americans, but he put it in the context of the historic poverty in black communities that has contributed to marginalization of the youth. And he lamented the injustices of a legal system that treats blacks worse than it does others.
"The African-American community is also knowledgeable that there is a history of racial disparities in the application of criminal laws - everything from the death penalty to enforcement of our drug laws," Obama said.
And he gave voice to the belief of many African-Americans that the Zimmerman case had racist undertones from beginning to end when he noted that, "If a white male teen was involved in the same kind of scenario, that, from top to bottom, both the outcome and the aftermath might have been different." This was Obama unglued, and in terms of significance, his statement - it was not really a speech - was far more profound and historic in terms of race relations than the 2008 speech he delivered in the wake of his former pastor Jeremiah Wright's incendiary observations about the United States.
Then, Obama the candidate was fighting for his political life when he made that speech explaining the complexity of race relations and the residual pain that led to Wright's admittedly offensive comments. In 2013, there was no political high-wire act to perform. There was no straddling the middle, and he spoke as a "brother," directly to the African-American experience, and validated it. And he challenged Middle America to acknowledge it. If you were a young black man and you heard Obama speak or read his statement, you saw it as an acknowledgment and affirmation of your life experience by the president of the United States. This was not some no-good young African-American complaining, it is the president telling the world that he understands it because he has lived it. Here was the president identifying with you.
The other thing about Friday is that Obama was also addressing the broader American society. He was telling them that the black experience may not be their experience, it may not be their life, but it is real, and they should not dismiss it. That's why he called for self-analysis by all Americans. "I think it is going to be important for all of us to do some soul-searching ... At least you ask yourself your own questions about, am I wringing as much bias out of myself as I can? Am I judging people as much as I can, based on not the colour of their skin, but the content of their character? That would, I think, be an appropriate exercise in the wake of this tragedy," Obama said.
For a child of an interracial marriage who wrote about not being sure where he belonged growing up, but who became the first black president and studiously avoided talking about race, last Friday was Obama's epiphany.
Not everyone agrees with Obama's observations, and there has been criticism. But he spoke about race relations in a way that will reverberate for a long time to come.
Mohammed Adam is a member of the Citizen's editorial board.
