The president of the National Bar Association, the largest organization of African-American attorneys in the U.S., on Monday joined a chorus of black leaders nationwide in warning Florida that it could face a boycott if it does not repeal or amend its "stand your ground" law.
John Page told a press conference at the organization's national convention that, if he could speak to Florida's Gov. Rick Scott, he would tell him that a boycott is a possibility though not his preference. He said he would prefer to see Florida agree to a special session of the Legislature to discuss changing the law. 
Page also directed remarks at state Rep. Dennis Baxley, R-Ocala, a principal author of the stand your ground law in Florida. Baxley recently told National Public Radio that the law had been written in part to allow tourists to protect themselves and for that reason a boycott made no sense.
Page said he doesn't see it that way.
"Representative Baxley, Governor Scott, this is the truth," Page said: "Your state will begin to be impacted in its tourism unless you act. Listen to the whispers before they become screams. Tourism, which is one of the lifelines of this state, would be impacted."
Page pointed out that Baxley, in his professional life, is a mortician.
"This is not a way to drum up business," he said of Baxley's authorship of the law.
Black leaders in Florida have asked Scott to convene a special session to discuss repealing or amending stand your ground. Scott has refused.
Scott's office in Tallahassee has been the site of a sit-in for the past two weeks by opponents of stand your ground, who call themselves the Dream Defenders. Veteran civil rights leader the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who attended the attorneys conference Monday, said he was leaving for Tallahassee to show his support for the protesters. Last week they were joined by singer and civil rights activist Harry Belafonte.
Florida Senate President Don Gaetz, R-Niceville, said Monday he agrees with Scott that there is no need for a special session. Gaetz said there is little agreement on whether change is needed to the law and that voters have a chance in the 2014 elections to make their views known.
"If people want to change the policymakers, if they want to change the policies, that's why we have elections," he said.
Page urged voters to go to the polls next year to remove lawmakers who back stand your ground, but he also renewed the call for a special session.
"Right now we're trying to change the law and have a common-sense dialogue with those who want to have dialogue," he said. "What I'm saying is clear: Boycott if we must. But right now we're asking you just to talk to us. We're asking you to convene a Legislature."
Sybrina Fulton of Miami Gardens, mother of Trayvon Martin, also spoke at the news conference. Her unarmed African-American son, 17, was shot to death in February 2012 in the Central Florida town of Sanford by George Zimmerman, 28, who is part white, part Hispanic. Zimmerman contended he was defending himself when the two struggled. The judge in his homicide trial used the stand your ground law as part of her jury instructions.
Zimmerman was acquitted July 13. The case had touched off a nationwide debate on stand your ground laws, a debate that has only intensified since the verdict.
In recent weeks entertainers such as Stevie Wonder and Madonna have said they will not perform in Florida while stand your ground is law. Martin Luther King III called for a boycott of Florida orange juice and social media have erupted with calls for a wider economic boycott of Florida.
Fulton was asked if she would support a boycott of Florida.
"I can't say I'm in support of it or not in support of ," she said. "But people have a right to free speech and if that is their way of showing how they feel, to express themselves about the verdict, I think that's something that they can do."
She also voiced support for repealing stand your ground.
"I think it assisted the person who killed my son to get away with murder," she said of the law. "I think we have to change these laws for people to not get away with murder. We have to change these laws so that it doesn't happen to somebody else's child."
Also present were Cleopatra and Nathaniel Pendleton, a Chicago couple whose daughter Hadiya, 15, died in a drive-by shooting in Chicago about a week after she performed in Washington at an event surrounding the presidential inauguration. The couple was at the convention, in part to participate in a panel about gun violence.
Fulton's attorney, Benjamin Crump, said he is afraid that if stand your ground laws aren't repealed, a legal precedent will be set allowing other cases to be decided in the way that the Zimmerman case was decided.
"We cannot have that precedent set," he said.
Crump said he believes that the controversial law should not be called stand your ground, because that makes the person invoking it sound noble and strong.
"What we should call it is really what it is: the 'make my day' law," Crump said, quoting the famous line from the 1971 film "Dirty Harry," in which Clint Eastwood played a trigger-happy police inspector.
jlantigua@pbpost.com
