 IMAGINE that a film script - with a plot revolving around a young African-American man named Barack Obama winning a race for the White House against a white military hero - was submitted to a Hollywood studio sometime in the first decade of the 21st century.
 And then imagine that the Hollywood producer received, at the same time, another film script with a different story line: it would still involve a young African-American man named Barack Obama. But in the other script, Mr Obama is shot and killed during a fight with a member of a neighbourhood watch team.
 Now ask yourself which of these two film scripts would have been regarded by Hollywood - or for that matter, by most Americans - as a realistic portrayal of the life of a young black man in America in 2002 and which of the two scripts would have been dismissed as totally far-fetched, a product of the imagination of a creative liberal writer.
 Indeed, the notion of an African-American politician occupying the White House would have probably been considered as belonging to the realm of science fiction six years before the son of an African man and a white woman did end up in 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, DC. 
Crime and violence
 At the same time, with gun violence being the main cause of death among young African-American men, and with one in every 15 black men in jail (compared to one in every 106 white men), it would make a lot of sense to adopt a story line of a television crime show which has a young black man being killed by a law enforcer.
 In fact, it won't be surprising if such an incident could find its way into a television reality show about life on the streets of a poor neighbourhood in America's inner cities, even at a time when a black man is occupying the White House.
 Earlier expectations were that the election of the first black president would inaugurate a new "post-racial era" in American society. But the angry protests around the country that followed the acquittal of second-degree murder and manslaughter charges by a six-woman jury of George Zimmerman, a neighbourhood watch volunteer who shot dead an unarmed black teenager named TrayvonMartin during a confrontation in a gated community in Florida, demonstrated that race relations remains a focal point in American politics.
 Post-racial era it was not, as "Justice for Trayvon" demonstrations were held in 100 cities and as Mr Obama himself admitted during an impromptu and unscripted appearance in the White House press room last Thursday during which he tried to implore Americans to do "some soul-searching" in the aftermath of the Zimmerman trial that was broadcast live on television and mesmerised the American viewing public for several weeks.
 Mr Obama, who is bi-racial, was raised as a child by his white mother, and after her death, by his white grandparents in a middle class neighbourhood in Hawaii, a state with an Asian majority population and with a very small black population. He was not exposed to the kind of poverty and street violence to which so many young blacks experience while growing up in crime-ridden mainland American cities.
 Moreover, Mr Obama, after studying in a prestigious boarding school in California, later enrolled as a student in two of the nation's Ivy Leagues universities, Columbia and Harvard. He benefited from the kind of educational opportunities that are not available even to most white middle class kids, never mind black ones.
 Not until moving to Chicago and marrying into a black family with roots in the poor neighbourhoods in the city and working as a social organiser in those areas of Chicago, was Mr Obama exposed to the realities of the black experience in America. Indeed, while running for local office in Illinois, some of his African-American rivals suggested that Mr Obama was not a "real black".
 But as a bi-racial public figure with strong ties to both white and black America, Mr Obama may be in position to recognise and respond to what many see as a growing disconnect between white and blacks as they reacted to the Zimmerman verdict.
 For most whites, including the six members of the Florida jury that acquitted Zimmerman, the case was not about race, but about two young men getting into a fight with one of them shooting the other during the confrontation. Mr Zimmerman, who is Hispanic and has never exhibited anti-black racial animosity (he claims to have actually dated a black woman) pleaded self-defence after being attacked by Mr Martin, saying that he feared for his life. And indeed, the trajectory of the bullet and gunpowder on Mr Martin's body seemed to support Mr Zimmerman's account that the teen was on top of him when the defendant shot and killed Mr Martin.
 But as many blacks see it, the case was about race, and demonstrated that young black men are viewed more suspiciously than their peers of other races and that they tend to be the target of police profiling because of their race and clothing, including the kind of hooded sweatshirt worn by Mr Martin when he was shot.
 According to a Washington Post-NBC News poll, eight in 10 blacks say they believed that Mr Martin's killing was not justified, a view shared by only 38 per cent of white Americans.
 During his press conference, Mr Obama refrained from challenging the legal basis for Mr Zimmerman's acquittal. But after avoiding discussing race relations for most of his presidency, he insisted that he wanted to "speak from the heart" about the issue and referring to his experience as a black man in the process.
 "There are very few African-American men in this country who haven't had the experience of being followed when they were shopping in a department store," Mr Obama said, adding: "That includes me."
No clear answer
 But the first African-American president didn't (or couldn't) provide a clear answer to his own questions. "Where do we take this'" he asked.
 "How do we learn something from this and move in a positive direction'" and "Are there some concrete things that we might be able to do'"
 Yet beyond calling on the need to "bolster and reinforce our African-American boys", Mr Obama seemed to admit that there was nothing concrete in terms of government policy that he could do to bridge the racial divide in American society.
 All he could offer was his confidence that younger generations of Americans have been making progress in changing racial attitudes.
 "It doesn't mean that we're in a post-racial society," he said. But there was hope, he stressed, noting that members of the generation of his two young daughters were "better than we are" when it comes to race relations.
