Last bulkhead in fight against middle class
I am concerned about the recent portrayal of the BART negotiations. In the past week, two articles have seemed to belong in the opinion pages or should have been labeled as an "in-depth" series.
You should be covering how unions are the last bulkhead in a fight against the middle class by the privileged few. And I am one of the "privileged few." I make substantially more than the $76,551 gross pay for BART workers. Yet I am here to fight with them. They should get cost-of-living adjustments. They can give a little on pensions/medical -- they should contribute like the rest of us do. 
But when Wisconsin and Texas governors attack unions and bolster right-to-work laws, the Mercury News should be informing Californians about attempts to strip the rights, incomes and benefits of our hardworking neighbors who help keep the demand for fossil fuels in check.
Richard Gardner
Palo Alto
Fire striking BART employees
If BART workers strike again, Gov. Jerry Brown should "do a Reagan" -- declare a state of emergency and terminate employees who don't show up for work. Tear up contracts and redefine salary and benefits to a rational level. Call in the National Guard to run BART.
Will this be inconvenient for passengers? Only temporarily. There are plenty of people willing to take BART employees' places. In 45 to 60 days, the negative impact will be nil, but the future will look promising, including a financially strong BART and a willing employee workforce. It worked with air traffic controllers and it will work with BART.
Gov. Brown, where do you really stand? The bloated gravy train has to stop.
Kurt Ayers
Los Altos
Save us from San Jose downtown bikini bar
Please save us from the kind of "upscale entertainment" that huckster Mike Rose is trying to sell us ("Concerns over 'bikini bar' in downtown San Jose," July 29).
Nearly 50 years after women's liberation, sexual harassment in the workplace remains a serious issue, from outright assault in the military to the roaming paws of sexual predators like San Diego Mayor Bob Filner. Is this really what we want for our daughters today -- another establishment that treats women as baubles who exist only for the pleasure of men? I'm all for growing the economy, but downtown needs an "upscale" bikini bar like it needs another dot-com bust.
Rachel Sumi
San Jose
Country needs leadership, not words
The op-ed by President Barack Obama ("America must fix what ails the middle class," July 29) is truly sad. Exploiting a dubious record, the president's only plan is once again to hit the campaign trail to deliver the same tired ideas of overspending and increased entitlements. He will have us ignore what he calls "phony scandals" at the IRS and the Department of Justice while allowing the NSA to threaten our liberty. What the country needs, Mr. President, is solid leadership, not another speaking tour.
Don Roberts
San Jose
Google is biggest brother of them all
With regard to Google's recent fundraiser for Sen. James Inhofe, the oil-industry stooge and climate-change denier: This makes business sense for them, playing both sides of the street. Google servers use more energy, very likely, than Inhofe's home state.
Google has a photo of your house. They know everyone you email and everything you discuss. They own YouTube, so they know what you look at and listen to. If you make a call on Google Voice, they archive it forever. In short, they have ways to spy on you that Orwell never could have conceived of. You are not the customer, you are the product.
Don't be evil? Don't make me laugh.
Kevin Collins
San Jose
Guns don't make for law-abiding society
Wayne Hathaway (Letters, July 27) writes that George Zimmerman might not be alive today if he hadn't carried his gun. If Zimmerman didn't have a gun, I strongly suspect he would not have engaged Trayvon Martin in the first place. But the extra bravado and Wild West mentality that comes from being in possession of a weapon that easily can kill apparently provided the extra impulse to be a vigilante.
And if Martin also had had a gun? Maybe we would have had a shootout. Americans' fetish for weapons will not, contrary to the NRA's incessant blather, result in a more law-abiding society.
Steve Watt
San Jose
