July 30--HAMILTON -- Twenty African students who have spent most of their summer in Hamilton gathered at Miami Downtown Monday night to recap their experience and share the projects they plan to take back to their homes this week.
The students came here from from Botswana, Uganda, Kenya and Zambia to learn about civic engagement at Miami University Hamilton this summer, a program made possible by a grant of $238,000 from the U.S. State Department's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, according to Sarah Woiteshek, director of the campus' Center for Civic Engagement. 
The exchange program, known as the Study of the United States Institute, has the potential to be renewed for additional two years, Woiteshek said, depending on whether the funding will be available. The campus applied to the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs to host the institute, and won out over about a dozen other colleges.
"We believe the U.S. State Department funded our program, in part, because of our location in the city of Hamilton," she said. "Our city is in a state of beautiful transition anchored by residents engaged in the process.
"Hamilton's evolution from a great industrial city to one striving to reinvent itself provides an intriguing backdrop for our students to learn the tremendous power of citizen action," she said.
The grant allowed for 10 local students to be regional fellows to live with the students during their stay and help facilitate their visit.
During the five-week institute, the students attended seminars and workshops on U.S. government structures, leadership, community organizing, and global citizenship. They also attended local City Council meetings and toured the Butler County Board of Elections to learn about the American voting process.
"The primary goal of the SUSI program is to develop a strong relationship with each student and foster a culture of mutual understanding between the United States and each student's home country," Woiteshek said.
They lived in Peabody Hall on the Western Campus in Oxford, and took advantage of that proximity to study the civil rights movement, especially the Freedom Summer project of the 1960s in which the campus served as the launching point for a voter registration drive in the South, which resulted in the murder of three students in Mississippi.
The visiting students found that to be an eye-opening learning experience, especially in light of the Trayvon Martin case being tried in Florida during their stay.
"We may not call it civil rights," said Seth Odongo, a student at Moi University in Kenya, "but it's the struggle for women to get education and the students' struggle to get work.
"We also saw how the great leaders of this country talk about it, how people believe in the just system even if they do not agree with it."
While the students were immersed in local culture, observing Hamilton's Independence Day celebration and concerts at RiversEdge Amphitheatre, they also made a side trip to Boston, where they attended the Frontiers of Democracy conference and explored the history of the American Revolution.
"Participation in American community work will help our international students prepare to engage in their own local communities," Woiteshek said.
During their workshops and classes, each student picked a topic of interest and concern and created presentations as to how they would use what they learned to solve problems in their home countries.
The civic issues included community development, substance abuse, unemployment, child abuse, youth engagement, women empowerment, environmental protection and access to education.
Cynthia Ichaminya, an engineering student from Kenya, chose substance abuse as her topic because she has seen how alcohol abuse has affected her peers. Her poster presentation on Monday included a photo of a student sleeping in a wheelbarrow.
"Our program goes from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., and so students cope with the stress by drinking," she said. "But of the 90 people who started the program with me, only 45 will complete it.
"I plan to form a non-profit organization to help build awareness of the problem and to increase the number of students who stay in school and graduate," she said.
Ichaminya said that she had to go through a very rigorous process to earn a spot on the Institute.
"I had to apply through the U.S. Embassy in my country," she said. "There were 200 students who applied and only six from Kenya are in the program."
"I have slept 28 hours," said Leo Hailey, from Botho College in Botswana. "That is how good America has been. We should be ready to give something back when we get home."
___ (c)2013 the Hamilton JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) Visit the Hamilton JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) at www.journal-news.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
