  Mayoral candidate Bill Thompson's harsher stance on the NYPD's use of stop-and-frisk is a calculated move to garner support from black and Latino voters, critics charge.   
  The former city comptroller, who on Sunday likened racial profiling in the Trayvon Martin killing to police profiling of citizens here, had until recently embraced a middle-of-the-road stance on the controversial NYPD tactic. 
  But a number of polls have shown Thompson struggling to cement the support of black voters. 
  "I think he originally felt that certain segments of the population were going to go with him automatically. He started looking at polls and seeing that wasn't happening," said City Councilman Jumaane Williams (D-Brooklyn), the lead sponsor of two bills that are meant to combat the high numbers of stops of black and Latino citizens. 
  Thompson has been criticized for not supporting either bill - including one that would create an inspector general to monitor the NYPD.  
  "I think Thompson's trying to have it both ways without putting any skin in the game," added Williams. 
  One of Thompson's opponents in the race for mayor also accused him of flip-flopping on the issue for political gain. 
  "Cut the bull, Bill," said former City Council member and mayoral hopeful Sal Albanese, who called on Thompson to apologize for being overly critical of the city's police force. 
  "Since this campaign started, Bill Thompson has made it his business to try to be all things to all people," he added. "New Yorkers can see right through his pandering."  
  Throughout the campaign, Thompson has called stop-and- frisk a useful tool but one that has been "abused" and "misused." He said that, rather than creating legislation to improve the police tactic, all it would take is a change of mayors. 
  On Sunday, he said, "If our government profiles people because of skin color and treats them as potential criminals, how can we expect citizens to do any less?" 
  Yesterday, Thompson insisted his stance on the issue hasn't changed. 
  "My position on stop-and-frisk still is the same. It is of continual concern about that," he said. 
  The Rev. Al Sharpton, who has yet to endorse a candidate in the mayor's race, said the speech made him go from "disappointed" to "encouraged" regarding Thompson's stance on stop-and-frisk. 
  "I thought it was clearly something that will probably energize a lot of voters who have questions about the fairness of the criminal justice system and policing," he told The Post. "I think it could prove to energize a lot of voters in the black and Latino community who have been waiting to see where Mr. Thompson stood."  
  Detective union President Mike Palladino, who also heads a coalition of uniformed employees that endorsed Thompson, said his latest comments about stop-and-frisk wouldn't impact their backing. 
  ygonen@nypost.com 
