Letters to the editor
hate 'Is it our any jobs wonder ?' we
Re "Why do people hate their jobs?," July 8: I'm not so sure it's the job itself that people hate. I'm inclined to think it's the long hours we have to work and the lack of decent vacation time. In Europe and the UK, they don't have to work as many hours in a week; they get a lot more public holidays and much more vacation time than we do.
I think if people were not so darn stressed, tired and run-down, they would cope with and enjoy their jobs a lot more. Our kids would be happier and not sent off to day care for eight to nine hours a day (longer for some poor kids), and Mom and Dad could be home more during summer vacation. 
Most of us want the lifestyle that two incomes provide but, like everything else in life, usually there is a cost to be paid.
Everyone gets home, eats fast food from the drive-through, runs to any sports or other activity the kids are in, gets kids ready for bed and school - and oh, did I mention homework? Is it any wonder we hate our jobs? After kids go to bed, lots of people still have to do more work in preparation for the following day.
We wonder why so many people get divorced; there's no time for the married couple. With six or fewer hours of sleep and an early rise the next day, who's happy to go to work? And don't forget the boss you love to hate; they just went through the same things you did the night before. So everyone is stressed.
MAGGIE SUMMERS, CLEARCREEK TWP.
'Zimmerman verdict a travesty of justice'
Based on the evidence and circumstances, the Zimmerman verdict by the six-woman jury (mostly white women) was a travesty of justice. After listening to opening and closing arguments and ongoing testimony by witnesses, I believe this jury was intimidated by the defense lawyers' plea of self-defense.
It was a travesty of justice that this jury allowed a man who murdered an unarmed child to go free. It's unbelievable the jury believed the defense lawyers' constant harping about reasonable doubt. There was no doubt that Trayvon Martin was killed by George Zimmerman with his gun.
This was a badly chosen jury. Where were the male and African-American jurors?
GORDON S. ANDERSON, KETTERING
More facts needed on speed cameras
Several weeks ago the newspaper ran a story on the accuracy of radars connected with speed-monitoring cameras. Factual and much appreciated.
Please consider another story - one on red-light cameras - covering the timing of yellow lights relative to state requirements; the legal definitions of an intersection and running a red light; and what is required to trigger a camera. For example, is being in an intersection when a light turns red sufficient to trigger a camera? As I understand the law, this would not be grounds for a ticket. Also, I have read about drivers getting a ticket for not stopping before making a right turn on red. Is this true, and what determines how long a car has to stop before making the turn? You may think of other factors to address.
I support traffic-monitoring cameras, provided they are fairly and legally implemented. Shortening the timing on the yellow light below requirements and positioning a speed camera without proper warning of the legal speed, for example, appear to be entrapment to me, and should be addressed by the courts or the legislature. But considering the number of drivers who routinely exceed the posted speed limit by more than 10 mph and enter an intersection after a light has turned red, some better means of traffic control are needed beyond the patrol car.
GARY BRUNNER, BEAVERCREEK
