July 23--NEW HAVEN -- Four African-Americans brought their own experiences and insights into a community conversation on healing and triumphing after the George Zimmerman verdict.
The event drew about 275 people, an organizer, Carroll E. Brown of West Haven, said.
Dozens stood when asked if they felt more vulnerable in the wake of the verdict. 
Looking across the audience, the facilitator, the Rev. Dr. Jerry Streets, said, "We have people of different ethnic backgrounds.
"We're not a white race, we're not a black race, we are a human race," said Streets, senior pastor of Dixwell Avenue Congregational United Church of Church, where the Monday evening program was held.
Speakers were Assistant Police Chief Thaddeus Reddish; Onya Harris, president of New Haven Black Social Workers Association; Teddy Brown Sr., retired detective sergeant, West Haven Police Department; and the Rev. Keith A. King, an attorney, prosecutor and senior pastor of Christian Tabernacle Baptist Church, Hamden.
Each offered some guidance.
Reddish said, "It's not the George Zimmermans that are killing the black males. It's our own black males that are killing black males.
"Our problem is not Zimmerman. Our problem is not 'stand your ground.' Our problem is our youth who have no respect for each other.
Police officers in New Haven are part of the community, he said.
Reddish recalled seeing a man on a bike with a gun in 1994.
He "pulled the gun out and put it on my face and pulled the trigger. It was a Glock."
The gun failed to go off. There was a foot chase; opportunity to shoot the man who tried to kill him. The man went to prison.
"I see him now with his little kids walking on the street.
"Connecticut law said I could use deadly force, but I didn't."
Reddish's family of civil rights workers in the South were "totally against" his being a cop.
"I uphold the laws of the state of Connecticut, and it's up to you to change the laws," he said.
Like President Barack Obama, King said he encountered racism early.
"In fifth-grade, I recall having a good friend who happened to be white."
While his friend's mother was not home, they hung out together at the boy's house until one day the boy's brother came home and saw King was black.
"He was in shock," King said.
After that, he was never allowed back at the friend's house.
His family told him: '"You were not allowed because they found out you were black.'"
He offered the following suggestions to African-Americans: get voting up to 80 to 90 percent; increase diversity in every area of law enforcement; and "recommit to the family."
"Very rarely," King said, did he see a "daddy in the courtroom," when a young African-American man was being prosecuted.
Harris noted, "We need more African-American therapists working with African-American boys," she said.
The aim is to "wipe the face of despair off them."
"A lot of young men are stricken with depression, but we see it as aggression," she said.
She also identified women who are victims of violence.
Brown, the former officer, addressed the Zimmerman trial for shooting TrayvonMartin in Florida.
"It was a sloppy investigation," Brown said.
"If you look at this trial, who was being tried?" he asked the audience.
"Trayvon."
When he was trained at the Police Academy, Brown said, shooting targets were black.
When he got out on the street, he looked at blacks in the same way, "because I was programmed to think like that," Brown said.
___ (c)2013 the New Haven Register (New Haven, Conn.) Visit the New Haven Register (New Haven, Conn.) at www.nhregister.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
