President Obama has thoughtfully asked us all to ask ourselves, "Am I wringing as much bias out of myself as I can? Am I judging people, as much as I can, based not on the color of their skin but the content of their character?"
Earlier this spring, however, the Supreme Court heard a case involving a woman who was judged not on the content of her character, but on the color of her skin, in being denied admission to the University of Texas. The Obama Justice Department argued that this was permissible. 
Texas had used a system that explicitly favored under-represented racial minorities. When that system was struck down by a court, Texas adopted a law that gave the top 10 percent of every Texas high school class admission to a state university. That policy actually increased the numbers of black and Hispanic students entering Texas universities over the previous explicit use of race.
The state thought the numbers were still not high enough, however. Giving opportunity on the basis of being poor, or first in one's family to go to college, or coming from a rural, less-developed part of the state, were all insufficient to obtain what the state wanted: that the count of students by race hit a certain number. After an intervening Supreme Court case involving Michigan, Texas went back to using race, and that was the case just decided.
President Obama's call for race-neutrality cannot be reconciled with the actual practice of race-favoritism in higher education, which he also appears to favor.
When a university admits students or hires faculty based on race, it sends a lesson that students can't help but observe. A white student, at a university where I previously taught, once told me that another student was "one of the brightest African American students here." Acculturated by his education in an elite college, that white student emerged with the stereotype that a minority-race student was there only by special concession from usual standards.
Another casualty involves parents of students rejected for admission, some with near-perfect SAT scores and high school GPAs. It is difficult for some parents not to develop attitudes of resentment, believing that their daughter or son would have been admitted but for her or his race.
Against these consequences that are damaging to creation of a race-neutral society, proponents of race-conscious university admissions and hiring who are prepared to speak candidly of what they are doing (as opposed to hiding it under supposedly race-neutral policies) argue that we have to use race now to eventually achieve a society that is no longer race-conscious. What they miss is that the government cannot, consistent with the Constitution, deny an individual the equal protection of the law based on that individual's race, however laudable the societal goal.
Tell the white or Asian student who is not admitted to a UC campus, but would have been admitted if she were black or Hispanic, that this is permissible because California has a greater goal in mind.
In 1973, Justice William O. Douglas, one of the most liberal Supreme Court justices in history, wrote that the Constitution "commands the elimination of racial barriers, not their creation in order to satisfy our theory as to how society ought to be organized." A university applicant "who is white is entitled to no advantage by reason of that fact; nor is he subject to any disability, no matter what his race or color. Whatever his race, he had a constitutional right to have his application considered on its individual merits in a racially neutral manner."
The Supreme Court suggested it would be very difficult for Texas to continue its current approach to admissions. The day may yet come when the law of the land is, indeed, what Martin Luther King, Jr. paraphrased by President Obama, said it should be: "I have a dream that my four children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character."
Tom Campbell is dean of the School of Law at Chapman University, and a former 
five-term U.S. congressman. 
These views are his own.
