Reconsider our ALEC-inspired laws
If Trayvon Martin had successfully defended himself and killed George Zimmerman, would he, like Zimmerman, have avoided arrest that night, protected by Florida's standyour- ground law?
If things were reversed, would Martin have been found not guilty of murder? The past American experience of injustice for blacks argues that he would have been convicted of murder.
The Zimmerman trial is over. Now begins the public opinion trial of the stand-your-ground law and of the American Legislative Exchange Council and its supporters. 
The Wisconsin Legislature includes many Republicans who are members of ALEC. Gov. Scott Walker is a past member and supporter of some ALEC-inspired legislation, including voter ID and "truth in sentencing."
Wisconsin leads the nation in racial disparity for incarceration of blacks, yet Walker halted the collection of racial profiling data during traffic stops. Police tell me it takes little time to collect the data.
The black community will not continue to endure these injustices, nor will the many whites who will help them stand their ground for justice.
? Timothy Shaw, Fitchburg
Educate yourselves about candidate choices
Voters of Wisconsin, I'm alarmed to learn that our governor's approval rating is less than 50 percent of voters.
How can he successfully run for president, as has long been expected, as an example of what can be done to improve a state if his approval rating is known to the nation's voters?
On the other hand, did we know the popularity of other presidential candidates we've chosen from?
What we should always do is read an informative and objective book or at least articles about our candidate choices.
If more people had read "Shrub," a book by the late political columnist Molly Ivins, we could have saved the country a fortune, much grief, many lives and would probably be in a much better position than we find ourselves in today.
? Karen Marion, Middleton
On ?truth,' Braun is least of our worries
Wednesday's editorial, "Braun: Time to stop the lies," is the height of hypocrisy. You accuse him of being a cheater or liar without knowing the facts, just assumptions.
What Braun did hurt no one, yet you demand that he tell all the "facts."
Where were you when Bush & Co. was lying us into war and causing thousands of needless deaths? Where were you when the CIA lied about torture and continues to lie about nearly everything it touches?
Where were you when our state politicians, particularly our governor, were dancing around the truth at every opportunity? How about the spin about Detroit's forthcoming bankruptcy and the blatant attempts by our own politicians who are trying to do the same thing to our state by selling off our buildings, land and God only knows what else is on the table?
Ryan Braun matters only to Ryan Braun and his teammates. He will have to live with the consequences of what he has or has not done ? not you and certainly not me.
? Don Johnson, Madison
Nixing barium fireworks is only partial solution
The decision by Madison Festivals Inc. to discontinue the use of barium in its planned 2014 fireworks show is a good one and will benefit water quality and aquatic life in Lake Monona and downstream waters. Organization president Rita Kelliher should be applauded.
But the move stops short of what could, and should, be done to avoid human impacts on our lakes because they are, after all, a source of Madison's drinking water.
Intentional additions of calcium, sodium, iron, strontium and copper to land and water should be avoided. I trust Kelliher does not think that just because these elements are found in the bathroom cabinet, it's OK to throw them in the lakes.
It sets a low bar to excuse the adding of fireworks chemicals just because these elements are already found in the lakes, or because the lakes are contaminated by "... other things that get flushed into an urban watershed ... ."
Rather than accepting past practice and the status quo, Madison should be doing everything to improve the ecological integrity of its lakes. ? Steve Glass, chairman, local organizing committee for Society for Ecological Restoration 2013 conference
Time to end Capitol singalong antics
July 4 has come and gone. It's summertime, time to put the Democrats and Republicans on the back burner and enjoy this short season.
It's time for the Capitol singalong participants to quit being selfish and head to their neighborhood fire pits to do their singing, chanting or whatever so the rest of us can enjoy the Capitol as we used to.
And it's way past time for the singers to understand that those sorts of antics helped push the Gov. Scott Walker fence-sitters his way the second time around.
? James Graves, Albany
