When yours truly was a young reporter, I worked out of a one-man bureau, often late at night in a city known for high crime and murder. My bride did not visit me in the evenings, and under no circumstances would she bring our young children to my office after dark.
The reason was that, across the street at the police department, the windows facing the street were walled up. I was told the reason was that gangbangers would drive by and shoot through the windows. Scary stuff. Cinder blocks were a prudent reaction. 
I didn't want my family inadvertently getting in the line of fire.
Some might say it was racist to judge that largely minority community that way. But there is nothing racist about assessing the likelihood of danger and acting accordingly. When you hear a shot, you duck. When you see someone wielding a gun, you flee. When you know that both those things occur, you don't put loved ones in danger. That's not racism. That's common sense.
President Barack Obama thought it necessary recently to lecture us on racial relations, prompted by the acquittal of George Zimmerman, a Hispanic man, described variously by the "impartial" media as white or a " white Hispanic," for his self-defense fatal shooting of TrayvonMartin, a black 17-year-old, portrayed by the same media as a child victim of racial profiling. The president seemed to imply it was wrong for the defendant to have used the weapon, even though the "child" was banging Zimmerman's head on the cement sidewalk. If your head was being thumped on concrete, would you deem self-defense prudent?
But the president explained that African American men suffer the indignity of being followed when they shop in a department store, of hearing "locks click on the doors of cars" when they approach and even being subjected to "a woman clutching her purse nervously and holding her breath" when sharing an elevator.
These are unfortunate reactions. But, like avoiding at night streets known for violence, they are rooted in perceptions of reality. As the president conceded, "African American young men are disproportionately involved in the criminal justice system [and] are disproportionately ... perpetrators of violence. ... [T]here are these statistics out there that show that African American boys are more violent."
The president used the passive voice, as if the criminal justice system is the prime mover, rather than the illegal behavior. If he were honest, Obama would have said, "African American young men are disproportionately criminals."
Thirteen percent of the population is black, but blacks accounted for 28 percent of nationwide arrests in 2010 and 38.1 percent of arrests for violent crime. Studies show arrest rates are proportionate to the percentages of the race of suspects identified by victims.
It is a tragic burden that young law-abiding African American males are viewed suspiciously because of the disproportionate bad behavior of others who resemble them. But it also was a burden for law-abiding merchants in gang-plagued neighborhoods who are forced to close their shops at night.
Such a perception of reality is obvious, even to Jesse Jackson, whose reaction to the TrayvonMartin shooting was to label Florida, "a kind of apartheid state." As Jackson conceded years ago, "There is nothing more painful to me ... than to walk down the street and hear footsteps and start thinking about robbery, then look around and see somebody white and feel relieved."
If we wish people to stop making prudent decisions based on accurate perceptions of reality, we must change reality. The alternative is to risk being victimized so you might appear to be more tolerant.
A pastor I know has spent hours ministering to prisoners, a disproportionate number of them minorities. But when he entered the prison, an armed guard always stood nearby. That's not intolerance, or racism. It's prudence. Prisons are disproportionately populated with dangerous people.
Much of minority crime can be traced to the devastation of the family. Boys go wrong without fathers at home to guide them. Unfortunately, that problem isn't likely to be corrected as quickly as it came on. Even more unfortunate, perceptions linger long after circumstances that give them rise may have abated.
Sadly, the repercussions of high crime in minority communities are likely to persist even after those dangerous conditions are alleviated because it's prudent not to take risks until the track record is long enough to demonstrate it is no longer unsafe.
It would be more productive to correct the problem at its origin, than to scold people for reacting prudently. Every day, broken families remaining commonplace only pushes further into the future the day when skin color becomes irrelevant in weighing one's safety.
