Bush shaves head
to encourage child
HOUSTON - Former President George H.W. Bush has shaved his head to show solidarity for the sick child of a Secret Service agent. 
A statement issued by a Bush spokesman Wednesday says the 89-year-old former president acted earlier this week at his summer home in Kennebunkport, Maine. That was after he saw members of his Secret Service detail with newly shaved heads to show support for the 2-year-old son of an agent. The child is undergoing treatment for leukemia and is losing his hair as a result.
The Bush spokesman identified the boy only as Patrick.
George and Barbara Bush lost their second child, 4-year-old Robin Bush, to leukemia almost 60 years ago.
The security detail has launched a website, www.patrickspals.org , to help with expenses associated with Patrick's treatment.
Bush this week joined members of his Secret Service detail in shaving his head to show solidarity for Patrick, who is undergoing treatment for leukemia.
Hospital releases
last bomb victim
BOSTON - The last person injured in the Boston Marathon bombings who is still in the hospital is being discharged, exactly 100 days after the attack that killed three people and wounded more than 260.
Marc Fucarile lost his right leg and suffered severe burns and shrapnel wounds when the second of two bombs exploded near him and a group of friends who were at the finish line to watch another friend complete the run.
Fucarile's relatives, doctors and therapists gathered at the lobby of Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital on Wednesday morning to say farewell as he headed home for the first time since the April 15 bombings.
Spaulding officials say Fucarile is the last person injured in the explosions to leave a hospital.
Slain boy's dad to
help black males
WASHINGTON - TrayvonMartin's father is joining an effort by members of Congress to focus more attention on issues that have a disproportionate impact on black men and boys.
Tracy Martin is set to speak later Wednesday at a forum billed as the first session of the Congressional Black Men and Boys Caucus. The gathering was organized to discuss issues ranging from racial profiling to chronic unemployment and high incarceration rates.
One of the organizers, Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton of the District of Columbia, says it's time to "bring our black men and boys to center stage."
Martin's appearance comes after George Zimmerman was acquitted in the shooting death of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin. The verdict touched off protests and calls for Zimmerman to face federal charges of violating Trayvon's civil rights.
COMPILED FROM WIRE REPORTS
