The 'Forgotten War' should be remembered 
 Today is the 60th anniversary of the end of the Korean War. It  should be celebrated across the United States and South Korea.  
    The war ended without a formal treaty, but with an armistice that  made possible a long peace in northeast Asia and that instilled the  ideals of freedom and prosperity in South Korea.  
    We would do well to remember the gallant sacrifice of those who  fought with South Korea when the North Korean army launched a  surprise attack on June 25, 1950. An overwhelming number of troops,  planes and tanks crumbled the weak defense of the South Korean  army. President Harry S. Truman ordered American forces to stop the  North Korean advance.  
    It appeared the war would end sooner than it did. But the Chinese  army secretly crossed the Yalu River and joined forces with the  North Koreans.   
    A hurried retreat and seesaw battles in subzero weather in  mountainous terrain took heavy casualties until a cease fire was  declared on July 27, 1953. It was one of the bloodiest wars in  American history. The total American casualties were 54,246 dead,  103,284 wounded, 8,177 missing in action and 7,000 prisoners of war  that were brutally treated. More than 5 million Americans served in  the 37-month war.  
    In addition, American veterans left behind a legacy of friendship  between the United States and South Korea with an extended period  of peace in a free and a prosperous South Korea. Those brave  veterans proved that peace is worth fighting for. The so-called  Forgotten War is forgotten no more.  
    Richard E. Onorevole  
    Saddle Brook, July 23  
    The writer is commander, Taejon Chapter 170, Korean War Veterans of  America.  
Many things worse than steroids in baseball 
    Regarding "Is A-Rod next?" (Page S-1, July 23):  
    Our society has odd, inconsistent notions of what is worth  protecting. Consider baseball and reproductive technology.  
    This week, considerable alarm is again being raised about baseball  players bulking up on steroids. Yet, applying the same analysis as  is applied to repro-tech, what's so bad about steroids?  
    A steroid-juiced home run looks much like a regular one. Concerns  about fairness can be addressed by allowing all to use steroids.  And objections based on steroids' long-term health effects seem  paternalistic. Why shouldn't baseball players freely exercise  reconstructive choice?  
    In contrast, few speak against the mail-order purchase of sperm and  eggs and the mass creation of frozen embryos, which are screened so  that the users can select their offspring. We even lavishly  subsidize these processes through health-insurance premiums.  
    Only a society that has lost its way considers the home run sacred  while it allows the fertility industrial complex to turn life into  a shopped-for commodity.  
    Mark Oshinskie  
    Highland Park, July 23 
   Past job cuts still hurt Port Authority 
    Regarding "Overtime costs soar at the Port Authority" (Page A-3,  July 25):  
    Allow me to share an observation. The story cites, and correctly  so, that unfilled vacancies are partly to blame for the increase.  The sad and despicable 9/11 event is surely a contributing reason  for the vacancy issue but one must go back as far as 1994 when the  authority abolished many jobs over a several-year period. So it's  not only vacancies, it is, in part, because many jobs were  eliminated.  
    Both governors at the time, Christie Whitman in New Jersey and  George Pataki in New York, agreed that jobs needed to be  eliminated. Pataki appointed two new executives to effectuate this  purge. The current Bergen County executive, Kathleen Donovan, who  was chairwoman of the Port Authority Board of Commissioners until  1995 and a board member through 2002, was equally enmeshed in the  jobs elimination.  
    Pataki was quoted after the purge that he was proud of the fact  that 1,500 jobs were eliminated.  
    However, what the governor failed to recognize was that, assuming a  modest figure of 20 years experience (many employees then remained  between 30 and 40 years until retirement), the authority didn't  lose 1,500 jobs, it really lost more than 30,000 man-years of  experience.  
    In my judgment, it never recovered from that bloodbath and loss of  experience.  
    Bob Rizzotti  
    Waldwick, July 25  
Society's children are always precious 
   Regarding "Another misstep in Newark Archdiocese" (Editorial, July  23):  
    When I read your closing comment that "there is no more precious  treasure in our society than our children," I had to pause because  this is what the Catholic Church, when it speaks out against  abortion, has been saying for centuries.  
    Whereas, The Record, with its pro-abortion rights editorial  posture, is really the one that doesn't seem to understand that  children are society's most precious treasure.  
    It seems that The Record has an anti-Catholic bias that is so  transparent that it is a wonder that any Catholic would read your  paper. Whether the subject is abortion, same-sex marriage or birth  control, the teachings of the Catholic Church really seem to rankle  The Record.  
    Robert Valentino  
    Oradell, July 25  
 Zimmerman's future and divine retribution 
    In regard to the George Zimmerman trial, the judge made it clear  that statements about race would be sharply limited and the term  "racial profiling" not allowed. In that way, the prosecutor was  disarmed. So, does that mean Zimmerman followed Trayvon Martin just  because he wore a hoodie on a rainy day? What other reason could be  assumed? Did the 17-year-old look through windows or try doorknobs  or have burglar tools?  
    The truth of the matter is that Zimmerman followed the boy, asked  no questions and shot him. That is, unless you are one of those who  will accept that Martin beat a man holding a gun when there was not  a speck of blood on Martin's fists.  
    A court of law can convict, or free, a person but can a conscience  escape self-punishment when heavy with guilt? Perhaps it can when  there is no conscience! Whether he is a politician, a banker or a  priest, a person without that inner voice called conscience is  thoroughly corrupt and, therefore, dangerous.  
    Phyllis Sembos  
    Emerson, July 17  
Student loan deal bad in the long run 
    Regarding "Senate passes student loan deal" (Page A-11, July 25):  
    On July 1, the subsidized Stafford student loan interest rate  doubled from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent, causing more than 7  million students to incur an additional $1,000 in loan costs. The  bill that passed was sold as a reversal of the rate hike, but in  actuality, it would pay for lower short-term interest rates by  driving those rates up within two years.  
    That is convenient for students graduating up to 2015, but not for  students like me, who will be finishing college in 2016. Past 2015,  the bill would see even higher interest rates throughout the  decade.  
    If this new agreement is signed into law, by the year 2018, an  undergraduate who takes out the maximum in subsidized and  unsubsidized Stafford loans will pay $4,700 more over the life of  the loan than they would have last year -- and $900 more than if  the rate stayed at 6.8 percent.  
    The subsidized Stafford student loan rate doubling on July 1 was a  big problem. But this attempted fix will only provide a temporary  solution and make things worse in the long run. This is a bad deal  for students, because it will make the problem of student debt even  worse.  
    Katie Park  
    Pinehurst, N.C., July 25  
    The writer is a student at Rutgers University.
