YOU might think his namesake had never lost our war against the Yanks.
George III's defeat was celebrated again on Independence Day earlier this month.
But there were fireworks popping all over American media as they joined the British with saturation coverage of Kate's labour, "easel watch" and princely name fever.
It was hilarious watching American media pundits ask - themselves why they cared so much - for hours on end. 
And yet nothing else was on TV. On Fox, one talking head "suggested they name the child "HRH Prince Barack Obama of Cambridge" because the president wanted "a monarchy".
"Didn't George Washington lay it down?" he spluttered, enraged at the fact the media storm continued, while little George, right, lay quietly unconcerned in his cot.
"Why do we look up to Kate Middleton?" he demanded. "What did she do except be attractive and meet the prince?"
I heard The King's Speech and " Princess Diana cited again and again. The Yanks were also keen to comment on our national culture.
"They're all celebrating in the pub," said one TV anchor. "Well Brian, at this time of night Brits are in the pub anyway," replied his correspondent.
But it was clear that the British monarchy really is the only one that counts across the Pond - proving again the huge value of the Crown to our tourism industry.
Prince George was 8lb 6oz of baby and billions of dollars worth of free advertising for Visit Britain. Celebrated Left-wing pundit Chris Matthews explained it in terms of the special relationship, pointing out that we Brits are the only ones who "really fight with the Americans.
"When the chips are down, GI Joe and Tommy fight together," he said.
"It's a special relationship - and now we have a new baby in the family."
Awww. Kind of sweet, isn't it? If it was satisfying to see the US networks slavishly bending the knee to our smallest prince, it was even better to see him upstaging the president.
As ever, Barack was as slow as he could be in paying a royal tribute.
His Twitter account was putting out standard political fare as the birth was announced.
Hours later, a standard tweet of congratulations was sent WITHOUT the initials "B.O." - always appended when the president writes something himself, meaning that he left this one to staffers.
The White House message came after many others from world leaders too.
But our nappy-clad royal was able to strike back with a rather effective snub of his own.
Obama's major economic address - a Left-wing spectacular on income inequality - was interrupted in the middle by the network announcements of the royal moniker.
The po-faced president - who is rumoured to have a strong personal dislike of Great Britain - was swept from the air by Kate's bundle of joy, to instant mockery from Twitter.
"Sorry President Obama, Imma let you finish, but this baby's name is GEORGE!" crowed one, giving it the Kanye West-Taylor Swift treatment.
"Must suck when your speech on income inequality is overshadowed by a baby that was literally born with limitless wealth and privilege," chuckled @sambaker.
The "Obama hates Britain" idea has a lot of traction over here in the US - with many suggesting the timing was deliberate.
After all, this is the man who thought it appropriate to give Gordon Brown a stack of wrong-region DVDs as a state gift.
"Westminster is trolling @BarackObama?" suggested @ThePantau.
Disaster
"Payback for the iPod and the Churchill bust," laughed another tweeter, referring to the time Obama presented our 80-year-old Queen with that very gadget - and removed the statue of former PM Winston from the Oval Office.
"Royal infant interrupts infantile "Aeader," was a popular line, as was "Always Presidenting in the shadow of a George".
The little prince's shared name with George Zimmerman - acquitted of the killing of Trayvon - Martin - didn't go unnoticed either.
"Prezzy got interrupted by a little George guy," said a commenter on one blog. "Must be that karma thingy." Indeed, it was surely no comfort to Obama to read his latest approval figures - the lowest since after his first presidential debate disaster against Mitt Romney last year.
That other George, Zimmerman, has also dented Obama's public standing.
His speech on race went down poorly with many Americans, who agreed with my column last week that the president should respect the jury's "not guilty" verdict and butt out.
All in all, for Obama this week has been a royal pain in the ass.
