Obama remarks harm race relations
President Obama says that race relations have improved with each passing generation. That was true until he became the president. Since then, his words and his administration have done nothing but harm race relations. His 20-minute speech on July 19 about the George Zimmerman case and verdict is a perfect example.
Indeed, if you take a look at Martin's life history - including divorced parents, drug use, suspension from school, graffiti, suspected burglary, fighting, etc. - Obama could have been him. 
Who is responsible for that? Apparently, he blames racism and racial injustice, at least in part. And his views have not changed over time, since he is now injecting the element of racism into this case, even when there is no evidence to suggest that race was a factor - other than the likelihood Zimmerman knew local authorities were on the lookout for young black males suspected of recent break-ins. Obama, saying he sensed the outcome would have been different if it had been a white male teen, is being totally racist. (It) is uncalled for, is without substance and merely harms race relations.
Obama also says many African-American men draw nervous stares on elevators and hear car locks when they walk down the street. Does he ever ask himself, "Why?" Does he ever look at crime statistics, by race, for murder, assault, rape and burglary? Or does he simply think everyone ignores or doesn't know about those statistics, and therefore people's fears and attitudes are merely due to racism? Therein lies our real problem with race relations.
JOSEPH BRAFFORD, BEAVERCREEK
'An old and very sensitive wound'
over , not surprisingly, it seems to have caused more discontent. Putting this behind us would be the hope of a large portion of our citizens as, regardless of the verdict, this has once again opened an old and very sensitive wound that some would deny exists, while others believe it never has been treated.
The echo of this trial leaves all of us who are parents of African-American or biracial children asking what can we do to protect our children. You would be hard pressed to find a non-white child in the U.S. who hasn't had to sit through the "conversation" about how to dress, how to behave, how to talk - always "yes, sir," "no, sir" - and if pulled over while driving, have your hands at 10 and two on the steering wheel, etc. Granted, this is good advice for all children; ours, however, face much more dire consequences if they don't take it to heart.
So what do we do now? We've already done everything we can to make our children invisible. The boundaries we have set for our children are damned near as restrictive as Jim Crow laws. ...
We talk about the stand your ground law, but apparently we weren't told it is for whites only. TrayvonMartin, in his last conversation, told his friend that he was being followed. Just perhaps, he felt threatened enough to confront the threat. Maybe he was tired of living the "conversation" and decided to make a statement that, considering the circumstances, was a perfectly logical reaction for a 17-year-old man/child.
I don't have any of the answers. I imagine this will be like arguments about gun control, full of righteous indignation, that will last about a month at most - or until CNN finds the next story. The saddest part of this whole episode is the victim. Trayvon is the only one who is blameless. ... But, at the same time, I'm running out of questions. How many times can one ask, "Why?"
WILLIAM STEVENS, HAMILTON
