Most people instinctively recoil from actual gun violence. Human brains seek distance from thoughts of bullet holes piercing our bodies. We want to believe it could not happen to us. We would never be out that late, in that neighborhood, or engaging in such conduct.
But sometimes, the gun violence personally reverberates in a way not easily dismissed. That could be us or our child in a movie theater, a public school, a Chuck E. Cheese's restaurant, or the common area of a gated community. 
When shootings hit close to home, they take on different meaning. On July 23, 1993 20 years ago many Denverites heard the gunshot that ended the life of businessman Tom Hollar. Two gang members targeted Tom and his wife, Christina, in a parking lot adjacent to central Denver apartments and a major supermarket.
Tom was shot dead as he bravely tried to prevent the abduction of his beloved wife. Hours later, several miles away in an alley in northeast Denver, alert Denver police officers found Christina naked and near death in the Hollars' car. She survived. She recovered. She testified. The criminals were convicted and sentenced to prison for the rest of their lives.
The Hollar murder was one of many atrocities that took place in Denver's 1993 Summer of Violence. Court TV and one of its young reporters, Dan Abrams, provided the nation with live coverage of the trial. Dozens of stories were in The Denver Post and Rocky Mountain News. Most Summer of Violence crimes were black against black, but the Hollar murder was different: The assailants were black and the victims were white.
Murders of white people usually receive more media attention, and that was true in this case, too. In many big cities, murders of minorities by other minorities are considered commonplace and not big news. Media outlets seek revenue and cater to the interests of the majority of its consumers. Members of minority groups may understandably feel that their lives are regarded as less valuable.
As the prosecutor of the Hollar killers, I was reminded of the case's racial angle by the reaction to the verdict in the death of TrayvonMartin. Of course, the tragic gunshot death of Martin did not suffer in the end from a lack of public attention. President Barack Obama told us he identifies with Martin, who might have been him 35 years ago. Fair enough.
But President Obama wanted to do more than just tell us his feelings. The president appeared to telegraph that the Justice Department will not be prosecuting George Zimmerman. But also there, deep in the president's extended remarks, was his condemnation of capital punishment as racist.
I support the death penalty but, for a variety of reasons, we never sought it for the killers of Tom Hollar.
Opponents of capital punishment have long argued the death penalty is dispensed disproportionally for the killing of white people. This argument has been well received by Gov. John Hickenlooper. This summer, Colorado's governor stopped the execution of Nathan Dunlap, a black man who murdered four white people in yet another crime from 1993.
President Obama just told us that the African American community is knowledgeable of a history of racial disparities in the application of criminal laws, and specifically referenced the death penalty. This presidential perspective may well influence capital punishment decisions in the federal prosecutions of Fort Hood shooting suspect Nidal Hasan, accused Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, and others.
Most of the victims in those two cases were white. On the same Saturday as the nationwide "Justice for Trayvon" protests, Coloradans solemnly observed the one year anniversary of the Aurora theater massacre. A white man, James Holmes, shot scores of bullets into a multi ethnic crowd of midnight movie goers. Is it now wrong and somehow racist to seek the execution of Holmes even though most of his murder victims were white?
There is more than enough real racism in this world without making it up where it does not exist. According to his zealous state prosecutors, Zimmerman was not motivated by racism. The Colorado death penalty prosecutions of Holmes and Dunlap don't seem to be racist. But the governor and president may disagree. And in the end, their opinions matter most.
Craig Silverman is a founding partner at Silverman and Olivas, PC. He worked previously as chief district attorney in Denver.
