spaceport >> So now that the people in New Mexico have paid over $200 million for that spaceport, they are going to take out another $20 million loan for visitor center. Do you suppose any of those visitors are going to actually fly from the spaceport? I seriously doubt that. You'll get stuck with that bill too. 
water meeting >> The meeting yesterday with International Boundary Water Commission was very productive and reached an excellent compromise concerning the hunting issues along the river. But the presentation from the bureau was idiotic. We're spending all this money studying a river that is dry.
wolf shot >> Contrary to all of the misinformation put out by the media recently, the Mexican Grey Wolf that was shot, was shot on private land because it was killing livestock that was privately owned on private land, a totally legal thing. These wolves need to be eradicated before they start killing people.
mallard fillmore >> Mallard Fillmore is a political cartoon that belongs on the editorial page, not on the page with all the other cartoons. Of course, this being a conservative cartoon, I can understand why you wanted to put it over with the ridiculous other cartoons.
doonesbury >> Read the Doonesbury's cartoon today, that is 7/18 regarding Fox Fantasy News. I could not have said it any better.
same-sex marriage >> Mr. Hooks' column against gay marriage is the same old argument made against interracial marriage before it became legal. i.e. it is against Biblical and natural law. Interracial marriage certainly has not destroyed our civilization and neither will gay marriage.
same-sex marriage >> This is in response to Neal Hooks' column on same-sex marriage. In same paper, even the Queen gave her approval for same-sex weddings. Neal, get with the program.
zimmerman trial >> Why was TrayvonMartin's freedom to stand his ground not considered? He was a teenager walking home from the store at 7 p.m. minding his own business, when accosted by an adult man with a gun. Trayvon was not doing anything wrong, but he was killed anyway because of the way he looked.
zimmerman trial >> As unpopular and repulsive as Zimmerman's acquittal may be, there is this little thing called the 5th Amendment. No retrial. The jury has spoken, that is the bottom line.
zimmerman trial >> George Zimmerman was a want-to-be cop and TrayvonMartin was a want-to-be thug. When these two forces come together, nothing good could happen.
snowden >> Tell the people condemning Snowden for choosing Russia with their great human rights records that might be true, but turn around and look at your own country. You have a government that is tracking every phone call, tracking all your email. You don't think you have a basic human right to be free of that type of government interference in your life?
virginia governor >> Is anybody besides me following this story of Virginia Governor McDonnell. Wow! I mean bribes and gifts to the wife and parties and a Ferrari. If this guy does not go to prison, there is no justice in the U.S.
be heard >> Call 575-541-5466 or emailsoundoff@lcsun-news.com to submit a Sound Off! item.
