With a sit-in by protesters in Rick Scott's office entering its second week, the governor Monday sent his top juvenile justice official to meet with those gathered to try to ease tensions roused by the George Zimmerman acquittal.
Wansley Walters, Scott's Department of Juvenile Justice secretary, spent most of the day listening to complaints about racial profiling and a classroom-to-prison pipeline that activists say plagues minority communities, as well as the need for ending zero-tolerance punishment in schools. 
Walters defended the administration, citing statistics showing a 23 percent drop in delinquency arrests over the past two years and an $11 million boost in state aid for community programs aimed at keeping kids out of trouble.
Walters also tried to win over an audience clearly skeptical of Scott and fellow state Republican leaders.
"Many of the concerns you shared are shared by Governor Scott and the administration," Walters told the two dozen activists gathered at the governor's office.
After about four hours of exchanges, Gabe Pendes, an organizer with Dream Defenders, which has been leading the sit-in, told Walters the group appreciated the session.
But he added that activists have no plans to end the protest, which began July 16 and has transformed the Capitol's main floor into a combination dining room and bunkhouse for those encamped.
"We have more things in common than we have differences," Pendes said. "But what is lacking is the political will."
Scott has already rejected the protesters' prime demand: a special session of the Legislature to repeal the state's "stand your ground" law.
The no-retreat, self-defense measure, approved in 2005, was not used by Zimmerman in fighting second-degree murder charges in the death of teenager Trayvon Martin. But the measure did shape instructions given by the judge to jurors who acquitted Zimmerman.
Scott on Monday was making appearances elsewhere in Florida, as he has every day since the protest began.
He was spotted briefly at the Capitol on Thursday, when he returned for a hastily arranged, 45-minute nighttime meeting with seven activist leaders. Scott told them that he supported the stand your ground law.
On Monday, after huddling with Walters at DJJ headquarters and sending her to the Capitol, Scott reiterated his position to reporters.
"They've asked for something that you know I'm not going to do," Scott said of protesters. "I'm not going to call a special session."
With the special session not a subject of discussion with Walters, the focus by activists on juvenile justice measures also is shaded by Martin's death.
The teenager had been suspended from school in Miami for various offenses three times in the months before his death. And activists Thursday found fault with steps taken so far by Scott and the Legislature to ease harsh punishment of young offenders.
They criticized Scott for signing into law legislation in 2011 that allowed counties to operate detention centers without oversight by the DJJ, although state officials said that only Pasco County has moved ahead with such a facility.
The DJJ's new civil citation program, aimed at giving first-time misdemeanor youth offenders a chance to avoid arrest, also was called a "Band-Aid" approach to a larger problem affecting minorities.
"We may not know all the lingo of the Legislature or agencies," said Melanie Andrade, a Florida A&M University student and the leader of the school's Dream Defender chapter. "But we know these kids, and we understand things from a very different point of view."
Andrade told Walters that state officials, school administrators and law enforcement officers look only one way at a problem.
"You have to meet us on our page," Andrade said. "All we are hearing is what works for you. That's how you see things. And I think that's where the real issue lies."
The number of those gathered at the Capitol has varied, topping 100 at least a couple of days, but usually hovering around 35 to 50.
Over the weekend, about 25 protesters were locked inside the closed Capitol after supplies of water, food and changes of clothing were carted in by volunteers.
Gretl Plessinger, a Florida Department of Law Enforcement spokeswoman, said Capitol police have doubled their staffing and canceled days off while the sit-in continues.
So far, Scott and police have not indicated they intend to force the protesters from the Capitol.
During working hours on weekdays, activists can easily exit and enter the Capitol. Some downtown Tallahassee churches have opened their doors to allow those involved in the sit-in to shower.
Sharon Russell -- whose son, Adam, is a Florida State University student who has been sitting in at the Capitol -- has helped organize deliveries of supplies.
Some restaurants have donated food, Russell said. But she and other volunteer leaders have accepted contributions using the website PayPal.
"Moms are going to watch out for these people," Russell said. "But they are doing the right thing. They're making a difference. And we're hearing it from people who call."
jkennedy@pbpost.com Twitter: @jkennedyreport
