Stevie Wonder says he's boycotting Florida.
The pop music legend is trying to pressure state lawmakers to revise Florida's self-defense laws, which helped exonerate Sanford community watch volunteer George Zimmerman in the shooting death of unarmed black teen, Trayvon Martin.
"I decided today that until the 'stand your ground' law is abolished in Florida, I will never perform there again," Wonder told his audience during a concert in Canada. 
I wish him luck. But history is against Wonder and any other performers he may persuade to rally for the cause.
Florida has a long history of being shunned by the rest of America. If there was a way to sever the peninsula, it probably would have happened already.
We tend to do a lot of stupid, embarrassing or infuriating things. And so we get treated like unruly children, put in timeout until we repent. But it never seems to shame us sufficiently.
Take the Equal Rights Amendment, which was passed by Congress in 1972. Thirty-five states ratified the amendment that banned discrimination against women. Needing only three more states for passage, supporters of the amendment focused on Florida, one of the non-ratifying states, because of our reliance on tourism.
In 1979, some 300 associations announced a boycott of Florida, saying that they wouldn't be holding conventions in the state until Florida ratified the ERA.
Florida still hasn't ratified the Equal Rights Amendment. And last year, Florida set a new record for tourists, with 89.3 million visitors, according to Visit Florida, the state's tourism marketing company.
When Florida passed a 5 percent tax on advertising in the spring of 1987, Johnson & Johnson pulled all its national TV ads for Tylenol, Band-Aids and other products in Florida. More than a dozen other national advertisers, including Kimberly-Clark, General Mills and Hanes, joined the Florida ad boycott.
That just made Florida teacher groups start a counter-campaign to urge state residents not to buy those company's products.
By that summer, the ad boycott was abandoned -- months before the law was scrapped.
Those who try to make Florida behave eventually just give up.
In 1996, the Boycott Florida Campaign started in Canada because of a new U.S. trade bill that punished Cuba. The plan was that Canadians would stop flocking to Florida in the winter months and that would cause lawmakers to scrap the embargo in the Helms-Burton Act.
The embargo is still in place, and last winter 3.6 million Canadians visited Florida, another record.
During the 2008 presidential election, Florida defied both political parties by ignoring the national calendar of presidential primaries. Florida's lawmakers went rogue, scheduling primaries early in hopes of getting more attention.
The parties reacted with sanctions against the state. The Democrats forbade their candidates from campaigning in Florida, and the Republicans said the early primary would cost the state half its delegates.
Did it teach Florida a lesson? No, Florida scheduled an earlier-than-sanctioned primary again for the 2012 presidential election.
We're slow learners. And there's not much under the sun that hasn't been tried already.
"We applaud Stevie Wonder, who said he will not come down to Florida until the law is changed," Martin Luther King III told the NAACP convention this month. "We may have to look at not consuming Florida orange juice."
That's been done before too.
And on a practical level, if the state's orange juice crop can weather celebrity endorsers as dubious as Anita Bryant and Rush Limbaugh, I'm not sure another boycott's going to squeeze an extra drop of sense from the state's lawmakers.
fcerabino@pbpost.com
