'Demands not based in reality'
Thank you for your editorials on July 2 and July 3: "BART workers' demands aren't based in reality" and "Transit deals shouldn't be concurrent." 
I am a retired U.S. Navy veteran and currently unemployed, laid off due to sequestration budget cuts, and when public service employees are asking for benefits a veteran would never get, they are out of touch with reality.
Public servants exist to serve the public, not the other way around; what BART employee want is a free ride. They don't have a hard job, and their "improved safety" request is a public relations smoke screen. They need to suck it up just like everyone else and realize they are well compensated.
Gone are the days when you get a free retirement and essentially free medical. They can join the military if they want a noncontributory plan and truly put their safety on the line.
Please tell us who we else we can complain to who might make a change at BART.
I also think BART upper management is overpaid. But our politicians are supported by these unions and that's why they remain neutral waiting for public opinion rather than oppose the self-serving unions.
Henry Gonzales, Jr.
Orinda
Personalizing issue isn't leadership
The President spoke this past weekend (July 19) on race relations in the wake of the George Zimmerman acquittal. Unfortunately he did what he frequently does when he's been reluctant to lead -- he personalized the issue and made it about him.
He said that 35 years ago, he could have been Trayvon Martin.
Let's analyze this for a moment. Thirty-five years ago he was attending a private Honolulu prep school, paid for by his wealthy grandparents, that today costs over $20,000 a year. He was in more danger of getting an atomic wedgie from a fellow member of the "Choom Gang" on the mean streets of Oahu than he was of being involved in a street fight with a Hispanic man.
Punahou may be a rough-and-tumble place, but my guess that a student's name on a police blotter there is a rare occurrence.
Keith McConnell
Lafayette
Of bridges and men
This may be throwing sand into your sandwich, but naming of highways and bridges after politicians is moving from the silly to the ridiculous. I mean, really, why should the Benicia Bridge be named after George Miller? Is it just because he has been re-elected to Congress every two years for what seems like half of his life?
And how do you like the roll-off-your-tongue sound of "Mineta San Jose International Airport?" Not to demean any of the men (and they are all men) mentioned in Gary Peterson's article, but I am guessing that somehow, the powers-that-be" will resist naming the Bay Bridge, Golden Gate Bridge and San Francisco Airport after a person.
Of course, I could be wrong ... the Nancy Pelosi/Barbara Lee San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge might be right around the corner.
Bill Fraser
Lafayette
