Payment comes due
Much has been said about recent unemployment changes. What seems to be missing the dialogue is that North Carolina had to borrow, and now owes over $2.5 billion plus interest to the federal unemployment insurance program.  
These loans must be repaid, or federal allocations (further loans) for unemployment benefits will be reduced in future years.
House Bill 4, which seems to have so many people in an uproar has, by necessity had to reduce benefits. It has also increased the taxes that employers must pay to fund the unemployment insurance program, repay the debt and to regain program solvency. A study completed by an independent agency in May 2012 examined a number of options that could be followed to regain solvency.
Included was a comparison of the nine states of the southeast US. From that report: "one anomaly stands out - maximum weekly benefit amount is over 70 percent higher than the average of the other eight states."
Political pandering, ... does not reduce the debt reduced. 
We may not like that people have had benefits reduced (mostly to bring it more in line with the rest of the southeast), but North Carolina has an obligation to repay the federal debt. ...
Marching to Raleigh does not pay the bill. ...
Gary Davis,<0x000A>Wallace
All types of racism
The Trayvon Martin/George Zimmerman incident is a tragedy on several levels, not the least of which is the torrent of racial prejudices it has released. A sad example of this is our president's recent statement on the subject, and E.J. Dionne's column about his statement.
The president, while trying to present his comments as even-handed, justified the uproar from the African-American community over the jury verdict, by saying that they were "looking at this issue through a set of experiences and a history that doesn't go away."
I have heard no one comment on the equally valid justification for the position of the white community. They, too, are looking at this issue through their own "set of experiences" - namely, that young, black males are very disproportionately represented in the criminal justice system of violent crimes, and therefore ... are often viewed with suspicion.
Nor is it noted by the African-American community that bad things happen to white people, too! Such events are viewed as examples of the unfairness of life. But when bad things happen to African-Americans, they are typically viewed as having been caused by the color of their skin.
... Our society would be improved by the elimination of both types of racism.
Lewis F. H. Smith, Wilmington
