 didn't exactly succeed with Current TV. 
 has pulled it off, so far, with OWN.
 Now 
 is making that giant leap - founding a new cable TV channel. 
 Combs on Friday said he plans to launch Revolt by late October. It'll be purely about popular music, of all genres. You know, the way MTV used to be before it dived into the (germ-infested) reality TV pool. Not that Combs faults MTV's business plan.
 "If I was in that position, I probably would have bit at that apple, too, to be more than just a music channel and be more of a youth culture network," Combs, 43, said in Los Angeles, according to USA Today. "But sometimes it's better to do one thing great. The most powerful thing that brings us together is music."
 Revolt, to be available initially in 25 million homes, has a difficult, if not impossible, goal: rejuvenate TV as a medium by bringing the Internet-obsessed millennial generation to the box. "My mission is to bring kids back to television" with live, "unpredictable" music news, performances, and videos, Combs said.
 Calling the project ambitious would be an understatement.
 How much cash is Combs sinking into Revolt?
 "It's a lot of money," he said, refusing to elaborate.
Jay Z on Zimmerman 
The acquittal of 
 in the shooting death of 
 enraged 
.
 "I was really angry, I didn't sleep for two days," the best-selling 
 creator tells Rap Radar.
 "Didn't Trayvon have the right to stand his ground?" 
's husband asked. "He was being chased . . . and fought back."
 Jay Z said Zimmerman had no right to act the policeman.
 "This guy's not a professional. . . . This guy's a novice. This guy's a . . . mall cop."
But he's young at heart 
' divine-lipped front man 
, who helped define the "hope I die before I get old" rock-and-roll ethos, turned 70 on Friday.
Conservatorship for Bynes? 
 is a danger to herself and others, her parents, 
, 68, and 
, 66, argued in an Oxnard, Calif., court on Friday. The Byneses seek an emergency conservatorship order that will give them legal and financial control over the troubled actress.
 But Judge 
 postponed making a ruling, saying he first needs to speak directly with Amanda. Reiser told the Byneses that Amanda is not in any immediate danger, since she's still in a locked psychiatric ward. Her psychiatric hold has been extended to 14 days.
 The Byneses will return to court Aug. 9.
 Contact "SideShow" at sideshow@inquirer.com. This column contains information from Inquirer wire services.     
