Eugene Robinson (July 19) has no desire to "talk honestly about unresolved racial issues,'' because if he did he would address, in addition to slavery, Jim Crow and white racism the following issues:
Young black men perpetrate violent crimes, including murder, at a rate far above their numerical representation in the population. According to the Bureau of Justice, black victims were killed by blacks 94 percent of the time during 1976 to 2005.
Black men and women far too often choose to have children without marrying. According to NBC News, 72 percent of black children are born to unwed mothers. This number was lower several decades back, when racism and oppression of blacks were worse.
Too much of black popular culture (e.g. hip-hop) glorifies threatening behavior and dress, as well as thuggery, promiscuity and violence. 
I am aware that many in the black community abhor these behaviors and trends, and some are working hard to improve matters, including several hip-hop artists.
Also, whenever I see some yahoo driving around with a Confederate flag on his car (excuse me, moron, it was about slavery!), I am reminded that racist troglodytes persist.
Unfortunately, you can't have an honest discussion about any social issue without gross generalizations with lots of exceptions.
Robinson is correct, our president contributes enormously by just being who he is, a model family man. Honestly, race relations will improve when substantially more young black men and women follow the president's and first lady's model.
Christopher Brooks, Lancaster
The reason that the verdict in the George Zimmerman trial feels different to everyone is because it is different. It is based on the new laws that were passed to make the "stand your ground'' law work.
Those laws included a greatly expanded definition of self-defense that basically allows a person to shoot anyone that scares them, as well as greatly expanded concealed-weapon laws that allow anyone to carry a concealed weapon anywhere they wish.
These two expansions make the "stand your ground'' law possible and are responsible for TrayvonMartin's legal killing. And until this entire set of laws is repealed in Florida and the other states that adopted them, we will continue to see tragedies like this play out all across America.
Judy Ginter, Pequea
The "not guilty" verdict allows George Zimmerman to go on with his life, fractured as it might become once his identity morphs into a viral commodity. His relief will no doubt be quelled in the days ahead by people who have no right to impeach his existence but who will do so anyway. That's life in our technology age; we have a vast supply ready to sate the heartless demand.
Much was made of the news agencies framing of TrayvonMartin as an angelic 12-year-old. The argument was made that the media was introducing a racial element where none existed by airing grade-school pictures instead of those showing a taller, stronger Trayvon.
Well, that "hulking," "thuggish" version of Trayvon that was posited for counter-purposes was equally erroneous. As author Tim Wise pointed out on CNN, the reports of a 6-foot-2 TrayvonMartin stretched the truth of his height by almost half a foot.
Race mattered in this trial, the same way race matters in our everyday lives. Too much, and for all the wrong reasons.
The peaceful protests that have sprouted up in cities across the country shouldn't be dismissed; they should be welcomed. You know the conversations we're always talking about starting? Well, here's one being started for us. Here's our chance. If we can't come together to mourn the loss of a young man taken too soon and to seek solutions to the problems, then all is lost. Not simply for African-Americans, but for each and every one of us. Society deserves better than that and we should expect better of ourselves.
Marc Anthony Hondares, East Lampeter Township
As far as I'm aware, the New York subway police are still assisted in patrols by the Guardian Angels, a civilian group identified by their red berets.
If neighborhood watch volunteers wore an identifying garment such as a light-colored windbreaker or hat with "neighborhood watch'' prominently displayed on it, maybe tragedies such as occurred in Florida could be averted.
Ideally, George Zimmerman should have identified himself as a neighborhood watch and TrayvonMartin should have replied that, while not a local resident, he was visiting his father at a nearby address.
But many young males have a tendency to use physical aggression first and ask questions later. Similar young male behavior can be seen in schools. Often misidentified as "bullying,'' it is really just young males sorting out their pecking order, which will continue in one form or another throughout most of their lives.
Such behavior can also be observed in the service. for example, if some sailors are in a bar and a group of Marines or soldiers enter, you can bet there will be a rumble. It's not that the servicemen hate each other.
The real challenge for any young male is to not let a verbal confrontation or fistfight escalate into serious physical harm or death.
Mark Gerasim, East Lampeter Township
The recent demands of commissioner Scott Martin requesting each county department refund monies spent fighting unions is the height of foolish self-positioning.
The general public knows that he and many other Republicans are anti-union. What they seldom think about is, what is a union? It is an agreement that binds two or more people together because of a common bond or mutual interest, such as the Republican Party and corporations or Democrats and the rights of people.
Both parties have chosen extreme positions and both are crippling the business of the people. They are continuing to waste taxpayer monies in any way possible for their own benefit, such as robbing the state pension fund without paying into it.
The core of county workers are the backbone of our local government. They need protection from the greed of the political parties who hand county jobs to their union friends who are often paid more and given line offices.
Mr. Martin, good management respects its workforce and balances the best interests of the public. Look what your union is doing in this state and the nation. Leadership demands some common sense.
William R. Hazlett, Warwick Township
Roughly 40 years ago Congress set up the Community Development Block Grant program to return federal tax money to communities around the country for local investment. From what I have seen, it has been a good program.
The Republican House wants to cut this $3 billion program to $1.6 billion.
Lancaster County currently receives $2.62 million and Lancaster city $1.4 million. This program has already been reduced by 25 percent since 2010. To cut it further is unacceptable.
I hate to see long-standing programs that addressed community needs be undressed by a Republican House that seems to have little compassion for the people they were elected to serve.
Our representative, Joe Pitts, is wrong on this issue. I urge you to call him and tell him so.
Thomas R. Hassler, Lancaster
We appreciated Steve Cornell's column (July 14) so much. It presented a level-headed look at the subject without getting in anyone's "face." Steve was not pushy on the moral issues but presented them as they are and should be looked at by others.
While we are open to others' opinions, there are some things that are not to be changed. Many are loudly demanding their view be accepted, when their view does not measure to the standards God himself has instituted from the beginning of mankind.
We believe God has the best plan for all mankind. There would be less conflict at hurt and violence if his plans were followed.
I'm not much of a person to have the right words to say - but Steve said it well.
Don and Kay Kurtz, Ephrata
"Don't touch my pension" has been the ongoing theme of our elected officials. C. Beyl's cartoon (July 21) "Pension Ice Cream" and Eric Epstein's "In My Opinion - Rep. Pitts enjoys bountiful harvest" (July 21) are both right on target concerning the problem of unrealistic pension programs that will continue to burden today's taxpayers and the taxpayers of generations to come.
The time has come for these programs to be adjusted. These politicians need to be including their pension plans and free lifetime health care insurance coverage on the cutting table with the other programs that they so freely cut and squeeze, such as education, public libraries, Medicare and Medicaid.
John Winters, Marietta
This is in reference to the excellent "In My Opinion" article in the July 21 Perspective section. I endorse the comments of Eric Epstein. This is another illustration of a politician who does not know when to retire and is definitely overpaid with his annual income plus lifetime benefits.
It also demonstrates why terms of office should be limited to reduce the outrageous pensions of members of Congress. Let us tell it like it is: "Joe Pitts is the pits."
Clarence W. Martin, Lititz
