How many more Detroits are there in America?
Detroit -- there are 100 more cities like it. Here's how they get there. Unions charge members fees. The money goes to politicians who make a prior commitment to pass the legislation to satisfy union demands in salary, retirement benefits and health care. They know these agreements cannot withstand the length of the agreement but politicians will be retired with their own plush plan by then anyway.
When Detroit reaches the point of $1 billion in income vs. $18 billion din debt, due to this irrational spending, bankruptcy occurs. The unions are even suing now saying the city cannot declare bankruptcy even though there are not anywhere near the funds available to solve the problem. This is what happens when Democratic politicians huddle with greedy union bosses and have no idea of future problems, or don't care. Don't include Republicans in this fiasco as there has not been a Republican in Detroit policy positions since the ice box was the top-selling kitchen appliance. 
Guess who will be looking at bankruptcy next? According to economists, there are over 100 cities in the country that are almost at the stage Detroit is in. Several are in California, such as San Diego. A handful have already filed. Others are on standby! We will be asked to cover the cost of the bailout of these cities through higher taxes. Detroit is asking for a federal bailout which means Californians will be paying for the funds to bring Detroit back among the living. In short, the country is in a mess and President Obama is out announcing a new economic program for the country. It sounds a lot like the current misguided effort.
-- Jim Remington, La Habra Heights
Many states actually allow you to stand your ground
You assert in your editorial of July 17 that George Zimmerman's claim of self-defense in the shooting death of Travon Martin was effective because of Florida's stand-your-ground law.
His attorneys did not invoke that law in their successful defense. Zimmerman's self-defense claim rested upon Martin breaking Zimmerman's nose, bashing his head into the concrete and reaching for Zimmerman's gun, which would be sufficient to make out a case for self-defense not just in Florida but in any state.
On July 15, KPCC's Larry Mantle discussed the Zimmerman case with several experts. Among them was attorney Andrew Branca, a national authority on the law of self-defense.
Mr. Branca said, "I hear a lot of discussion about how Florida has this crazy stand-your-ground law that creates these unique legal scenarios. The fact is Florida's stand-your-ground law is quite common; 33 states are effectively SYG states and have very similar provisions. In fact there is one state that not only lets you to stand your ground, it explicitly allows you to pursue your assailant if necessary for your safety. And that state is California."
You wrote that Zimmerman is white.
They New York Times says he is a white Hispanic and the L.A. paper says he identifies as Latino.
Zimmerman is a Latino who was raised in a multi-racial household and lived in a multi-racial neighborhood.
After interviewing nearly three dozen people in their investigation of the Zimmerman murder case, the FBI found no evidence that racial bias was a motivating factor in the shooting of Trayvon Martin, records released July 11 show.
He is a Democrat who says he voted for Obama. However, the media narrative demands that Travon Martin's killer be a conservative, white, gun-toting racist.
Where the facts don't support the narrative, the media ignores the facts.
-- Stuart Makagon, Whittier
