Womad 2013
Charlton Park, Wiltshire
****
If Womad were a country, it would be pretty close to an earthly paradise. Hitting a new attendance record of 38,000 people over the weekend, the multicultural music festival's seventh year in its idyllic Wiltshire home was an overwhelmingly pleasant and Utopian experience, throwing into sharp relief the shortfalls of other major outdoor events. Accessible, clean, child-friendly and inclusive, this pan-generational carnival even had people on the main stage spelling out lyrics in sign language for the hearing-impaired. The only downside was an abundance of Bob Marley cover versions. 
One of the first boutique festivals, the 31-year-old Womad created a model that is much imitated but so far never bettered. During that period, the narrow term "world music" has become increasingly fluid and almost meaningless, as this year's eclectic bill demonstrated. There are no simple genre labels to adequately describe the dazzling sound made by the Trinidadborn steel-drum maestro and Hot Chip collaborator Fimber Bravo, who whipped up a kinetic fusion of rock, electronic and calypso elements. Likewise the retro-jazz techno hybrid of Austria's Parov Stelar, or the British dubstep producer Mala's elegant synthesis of sinewy Cuban rhythms with supple machine beats.
Saturday's headliners, the Atlantabased hippie-hop veterans Arrested Development, dedicated a song to Trayvon Martin and dropped an extended Black Power salute into the middle of their surprisingly gutsy, punchy set. There was more spiky social commentary from Emel Mathlouthi, the Tunisian singer now based in Paris after being banned in her homeland shortly before the revolution for which her songs were the soundtrack. A charismatic performer reminiscent of Bjrk, Mathlouthi played a passionate multilingual show, mixing fiery folkpop chansons with floor-shuddering electronic interludes.
This was also a vintage year for spritely old-timers, with 77-year-old Lee "Scratch" Perry and 65-year-old Max Romeo forming a double act of eccentric reggae elder statesmen on Friday. The next day, the Anglo-Ghanaian Afro-rock collective Osibisa played in a heavy downpour, their septuagenarian frontman Teddy Osei vainly promising that the band's shimmering sunshine grooves would drive the rain away.
Sunday's headliner was Gilberto Gil, a former Brazilian minister of culture and dapper silver fox who appeared considerably younger than his 71 years as he crooned and twirled through 90 minutes of light-headed samba and rubber-limbed baio tunes. Gil also included an obligatory Bob Marley medley but he can be forgiven: when you are a living legend who helped to revolutionise South American music, you can pretty much play whatever you want, especially here in the people's republic of Womad.
