There were no signs, no banners and no angry words.
But, there was emotion in their hearts as the dozen members of Hamilton's black community took part in a march Wednesday to demonstrate solidarity with those opposed to the verdict in the killing of Florida teen Trayvon Martin.
Ajid Lockhart, 67, said the not-guilty verdict given to George Zimmerman on July 13 is a hot topic in the black community.
"In my circle, everybody is talking about it," said the member of the Dominica Association of Hamilton. "I think it was unjust. The guy got away with a crime. It was a one-sided affair, as far as I'm concerned."
The marchers started the solidarity walk at Barton Street and Birch Avenue, near the Afghan Islamic Cultural Centre of Hamilton, in late afternoon. About 90 minutes later, they ended at the City Centre at James Street North and York Boulevard.
The walk was organized by a group calling itself The Only Good Negro Social Club, which apparently meets at the rear of the Afghan centre. The club lists its address as 593 Barton St. E. A poster for the march was created by Paula Cromwell Montoute. Hamilton police were told about the march by Carlson Cromwell.
The walk followed hundreds of similar events which have taken place since the verdict was announced.
Martin was shot dead by Zimmerman on Feb. 26, 2012. The 17-year-old was walking back from a store in Sanford, Fla., to the home of his father's fiance when he got into a confrontation with Zimmerman, a neighbourhood watch member.
Zimmerman argued the shooting was in self defence. He was acquitted of murder.
Judy Lockhart, 41, said she came to the march because she wanted to bring awareness to what happened to Martin "because there was no justice."
She would support the United States government filing civil rights charges against Zimmerman.
Jhlia Brown, 12, did not like the verdict.
"I didn't really get it," said Brown, who is going into Grade 7 at Gordon Price Elementary School on the west Mountain. "I didn't think it was the fair, the way they dealt with it."
Sean Gibson, a well-known member of the black community, came out with his two daughters. He said it didn't matter how many people were at the march.
"The people who came out really cared," he said. "This kid was attacked by this gentleman ... If the races were reversed - if it was a white guy who got shot by a black kid - the verdict would have been extremely different."
dnolan@thespec.com
905-526-3351 | @dandundas
