South Africa is, without a doubt, many countries - or even worlds - rolled into one. That's my prominent impression after driving through KZN, Transkei, Garden Route and Cape Peninsula.
On this first trip to the country for a reunion of Nieman Fellows (journalists), we moved frequently between First World amenities, emerging economy-style dynamism, and the struggles of underdevelopment- all in the course of a few days.
The mall in Scottburgh bubbled with excitement about new retail opportunities, while the malls in Cape Town had the blas air of trendy European capitals. We were captivated by the histories of voluntary and forced migration set against the backdrop of splendid towering mountains and the lapping oceans: you are a real meeting point for three continents - Africa, Asia and Europe. 
As Americans of Indian origin, we were especially attuned to the Indian disapora in South Africa: many people looked like us, but of course sounded very different.
Our first stop in Durban was at the Phoenix Settlement where Mahatma Gandhi experimented with a new social order for more than a decade. South Africa is not recognised enough as the crucible for Gandhi's transformation into a political activist and thinker - it was where he spent the most vital middle 20 years of his life - and we were keen to explore it.
It was a thrill to gaze out at the hills from the same verandah where he stood 100 years ago, plotting non-violent strategies to contest social hierarchies. It was also strangely lonesome - there were no throngs of visitors to this museum.
The landmarks associated with Nelson Mandela's life history were moving in entirely different ways. Our visits to Qunu's museum and Robben Island were made especially urgent knowing his fragile health.
Perhaps what we most wanted to understand better was the transformation Mandela underwent from being an agitator who contested apartheid by all means necessary to an all-embracing spirit who believed in the best in everybody and wagered on it.
We came to understand it better by witnessing the conditions in his prison. We were moved by the tiny window through which he gazed for years on |end in his solitary cell.
The strategy of "each one teaching one" seemed especially heroic in the cramped conditions of the group cell, where 20 to 30 disparate people spent their evening and sleeping hours together.
We imagined the many evenings spent debating ideas and strategies, sharing secret information about the outside world, and imagining a better future.
It was saddening to hear that Jama, a former inmate and our guide, who gave up precious years of his youth in Port Elizabeth to fight for a more just order, now had no official recognition from the government as a freedom fighter, and that he worked in this job out of economic necessity.
While this is understandable when a government is strapped for resources, we also know from driving through the cushy white suburbs of Durban and Cape Town that this is also a very rich country.
South Africa's transition is a difficult and painful one. Perhaps the most insightful line about it came in Lara Foot's play Solomon and Marion which our host, Janet Heard, took us to on our final night: "We can't keep behaving as if the Struggle had a neat beginning and a neat ending."
And I have to confess, that line is especially resonant having landed in the US to the "not guilty" verdict in the Trayvon Martin manslaughter case.
The struggle for a more just world continues here as well.
Dr Ashwini Tambe
Associate Professor, |Department of Women's Studies, |University of Maryland-College Park
Affiliate faculty, Dept of History |and Asian American Studies Programme
USA
