Fall from grace has caused our alienation
The rallies for Trayvon Martin seek to bring to light divisions in our society, but they miss their mark in two ways. They look at just one division among many, and they fail to offer an adequate solution to humanity's fundamental alienation.
As a species, we constantly judge one another. If someone is better off than us, we jealously assume they are greedy. If they are poor, we hold them in contempt and blame them for their laziness. We discard our "useless" elders to homes. 
From campus to the military we assault our women. We made commodities of their bodies and subject them to sexual harassment. If a woman is pretty, she is treated as brainless. If she's not pretty, she is socially outcast.
We allow foreigners to immigrate and work here for decades, but move to deport them when the political winds change. We cannot discuss members of the opposing political party without demeaning and slandering them.
Why are we divided from one another? As Christians have long recognized, when we broke from our source, we went in a myriad of directions and thereby became incapable of truly connecting with one another. Only in communion with God can we rightly relate to one another.
We all long for the brotherhood of mankind, but we cannot have that without first recognizing the fatherhood of God.
- Monte Knetter, Sun Prairie
Alzheimer's and mercury connection possible
Tuesday's editorial, "Dementia studies connect dots," while factual overall, states we do not know the cause of these conditions.
I disagree. Features of Alzheimer's disease are present in studies examining cell and tissue damage caused by mercury.
Unfortunately, the most damaging sources of mercury today are mercury dental amalgams, compact fluorescent light bulbs (when broken) and vaccines.
If you are concerned about dementia, I suggest avoiding these products.
- Michael Wagnitz, Madison
Need carbon tax that provides direct rebates
Has hell frozen over? It's hard to imagine that happening with the intensifying incidence of droughts and heat waves as greenhouse gases blanket the globe.
Yet strange happenings may make a frozen hell seem possible.
For instance, when conservatives such as Steve Chapman, in his Sunday column "How to prosper and fight global warming," cite economist Adele Morris of the centrist Brookings Institution to explain and justify a new tax strategy to address climate change, then maybe there is hope for the improbable.
The good news? They join many politicians and economists across the spectrum who advocate a carbon tax to steadily raise fees on fossil fuels. Such a carbon tax drives down emissions and drives up use of clean energy.
The bad news? The carbon tax Chapman sketches does not return all revenue to the public directly but offsets its cost with reductions in other taxes. This ensnares carbon tax action with the monumental task of rewriting the tax code.
Expedite action with a carbon tax and dividend strategy that avoids increasing net government revenue and rebates the money directly to the people.
- Kermit M. Hovey Jr., Middleton
Now abortion supporters know gun owners' gripe
The liberals have their undies in a bunch over the new abortion legislation.
Perhaps they can now begin to understand how we gun owners feel about their constant attacks and infringements on our Second Amendment rights.
To paraphrase the anti-gun left, no one is taking away your right to an abortion. These are just reasonable controls and restrictions.
- John Clendenning, Montello
Profits may be up, but not for everyone
It's ironic how many of our elected officials are quick to cut programs and services they say we can't afford for needy people receiving unemployment compensation, food and medical assistance.
They may regard these people as lazy and undeserving freeloaders ripping off the taxpayers.
But these same officials have no qualms over paying billions of tax dollars in subsidies to agribusiness, energy companies, cotton producers, sugar manufactures and so on, all in the name of jobs, even though these industries are raking in profits.
These profits are used to pay increased dividends to shareholders due to their increased efficiencies (code for reduced worker pay and benefits). Our officials don't offer any reductions here.
I don't begrudge companies making a profit, but it shouldn't come at the expense of the workers. As an investor, I'm willing to accept a lower dividend if the companies reinvest in their employees, allowing them to earn a living wage and receive some benefits.
Of the few jobs being created, many are for workers from temporary agencies. Workers earn little pay and receive no benefits, allowing companies to continue to reap enormous profits.
- Brent Odell, McFarland
