American Vice President Joe Biden is in India on a four-day 'goodwill' visit. One of the leading dailies in Mumbai has already interviewed him with predicable questions (China, Taliban, Pakistan and Drone attacks, immigration, Obama-Biden legacy) and published predictable answers. Another important foreign dignitary was allowed to get away with the art-of-saying nothing. The FPJ framed a list of different questions which we hope would catch the attention of the Vice President.
Q: Mr Vice President, while the US President and the Vice President use Air Force 1 for their foreign visits, one of the planes goes along carrying the most sophisticated snooping equipment to tap telephones, listen into private conversations and so on. Can you mention the special equipment you have carried with you on this 'goodwill' visit? 
Q: Which is more interesting, eavesdropping on the allies or the not-so-friendly nations? Can you explain your government's strategy on getting out of this snooping mess when you get caught?
Q: The world was surprised to hear your government would negotiate with the 'good' Taliban. Can you tell us how the US distinguishes 'good' Taliban from the 'Bad' one? What is the US Treasury allocation for the development of special Drones which would bomb and kill only Bad Taliban?
Q: The US, asked or not, dispensed justice to the entire world. For instance, Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan and so on? Who, in the Obama administration, would dispense justice for the 19-year-old black youth TrayvonMartin?
Q: What percentage of his poll promises, do you think, would Barack Obama fulfill? Do you agree that normally US Presidents lose interest in governing during heir second terms? And if one of them had already won the Nobel Peace Prize even before he could count the number of rooms in the White House, why should he labour once more for peace progress?
Q: Are you ready to talk with our Opposition party, BJP, to consider its request to send 29-year old George Zimmerman, the killer of TrayvonMartin, to train Gujarat police on the art of encounter killings and getting away with them?
Q: According to your promise, you would be exiting from Afghanistan by end 2014 with (as the world says) you tail between your legs? Any plans for exhibiting this tail at the Washington Smithsonian? Would this exit be as inglorious as the one from Vietnam? The one factor missing was a Henry Kissinger!
Q: In the past whenever it had suited you, you provided us with food grains and arms. The major complaint among Indians now is that we lack governance. Are you ready to supply some of this to us?
Q: Would the US state department set up Human Rights Schools to teach us, how, when and where to raise this issue? This was so confusing, Sri Lanka, protecting its national integrity was guilty of human rights violations, but not Israel which did this every day with US weaponry
Q: Everywhere you go, you will hear people and media referring to Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh as a 'lame duck'. What will be your strategy in dealing with lame duck leaders? Dr Singh is likely to visit Washington next September? Will he be feted or sort of brushed aside as a lame duck?
Q: The BJP charges Rs five for anyone who wants to meet Narendra Modi? Are you ready with the note if you happened to meet Modi?
Q: Will you be interacting with Bollywoood during your halt in Mumbai and will your secret service halt actor Shah Rukh Khan for hours and subject him to a body search?
Q: Retiring Presidents in US seldom had anything worthwhile to do? How was it with Vice Presidents?
Q: We heard rumours that the President would revive the Peace Corps programme and send his two daughters as volunteers to India because he and the First Lady wanted to be left alone for some well-earned rest?
Thank you Mr Vice President!
