Nation & World briefing
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration is planning to transfer two Guantanamo Bay detainees to Algeria, the first movement of terrorist suspects from the prison since the president announced a renewed push to close the contentious military-run facility in Cuba.
The White House said Friday that it was starting the transfers as part of President Barack Obama's goal to close the prison, a campaign promise that has eluded him since he took office. The move signaled a new push to reduce the population of 166 detainees at the prison, where dozens are on a hunger strike to draw attention to their indefinite detention.
The White House said the two detainees will not be identified until after the transfer, which can't come until after a 30-day waiting period. Administration officials also wouldn't say what security assurances they had from the Algerian government as part of the arrangement.
Martin's mom: 'Use my broken heart' 
PHILADELPHIA -- The mother of Trayvon Martin, the unarmed Florida teenager whose fatal shooting by a neighborhood watch volunteer has provoked a national debate over racial profiling and gun laws, appealed to a crowd of black advocates here Friday to "use my broken heart" to prevent a repeat of what happened to her son.
"My message to you is, please use my story, please use my tragedy, please use my broken heart to say to yourself, 'We cannot let this happen to anybody else's child,' " Sybrina Fulton said during a brief but emotional luncheon talk to a gathering of the National Urban League.
She received a standing ovation.
Spanish train driver placed under arrest
SANTIAGO DE COMPOSTELA, Spain -- A veteran train driver with a zest for speed was arrested in his hospital room in northwestern Spain where investigators are trying to determine whether reckless behavior caused a train wreck that left dozens of passengers dead, the authorities said Friday.
The driver, Francisco Jose Garzon Amo, 52, is the focus of a criminal investigation, according to Jaime Iglesias, the national police commander from Galicia who said at a news conference that investigators were waiting for the driver's condition to improve to start questioning him about Wednesday's crash. A judicial inquiry, he added, could also take place in the hospital where he is recovering.
Photographs of the driver, his face bloodied, appeared prominently in Spanish newspapers along with screen grabs of the driver's now deleted Facebook page where he bragged last year about topping speeds of 200 kilometers, or 124 miles, per hour.
Paint splashed on Lincoln Memorial
WASHINGTON -- The Lincoln Memorial was temporarily closed Friday after someone splattered green paint on the statue of the 16th president, though it reopened Friday evening.
The apparent vandalism was discovered around 1:30 a.m. Friday on the statue, the pedestal and the floor, U.S. Park Police said. No words, letters or symbols were visible in the paint.
The marble Lincoln statute had green paint on its shin, coattail, chair and base, as well as paint on the floor of the memorial building.
Capt. Steven Booker said the paint spill "appears intentional based off of the splatter." Police were reviewing security camera footage to try to identify possible suspects, he said.
Death of hacker under investigation
SAN FRANCISCO -- A prominent hacker who discovered a way to have ATMs spit out cash and was set to deliver a talk about hacking pacemakers and other wireless implantable medical devices has died in San Francisco, authorities and his employer said.
Barnaby Jack died Thursday, although the cause of death was still under investigation, San Francisco Deputy Coroner Kris Barbrich said. Craig Brophy, a spokesman for computer security firm IOActive, Inc., where Jack worked, confirmed his death and said the company would be issuing a statement.
Jack, who was in his mid-30s, was scheduled to speak next Thursday at the Black Hat security conference in Las Vegas. The headline of his talk was, "Implantable Medical Devices: Hacking Humans," according to a synopsis on the Black Hat conference website.
Jack planned to discuss ways manufacturers could improve the security of the devices.
'Whitey' Bulger prosecutors rest
BOSTON -- Prosecutors rested their case against reputed Boston gangster James "Whitey" Bulger on Friday after calling 63 witnesses who described in sometimes gruesome detail his alleged role in 19 murders, a string of extortions and other crimes.
Bulger, 83, is charged with 32 counts in a racketeering indictment that chronicles his alleged reign as leader of the Winter Hill Gang.
Bulger's lawyers are expected to begin presenting witnesses Monday. Defense lawyer J.W. Carney Jr. would not say whether Bulger will take the stand in his own defense.
Japan's defense chief urges buildup
TOKYO -- Japan should look into acquiring offensive weapons and other new military capabilities and assume a more active role in regional security, the country's defense minister said Friday, giving an early glimpse of how the new conservative government could lead the nation further than ever from its postwar pacifism.
The minister, Itsunori Onodera, said Japan should consider such steps as acquiring weapons to strike bases in hostile countries and aerial drones to monitor Japan's vast territorial waters in response to the growing capabilities of North Korea and China.
He spoke after his ministry released an interim report on an overhaul of Japanese defense strategy under way by the administration of hawkish Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, whose Liberal Democratic Party won a decisive election victory Sunday. A new strategy with more specific proposals is expected to be completed by the end of the year.
Strauss-Kahn faces sex ring charges
PARIS -- Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the disgraced former chief of the International Monetary Fund, was ordered Friday to stand trial in France on charges linked to his involvement in a prostitution ring prosecutors say was operating in France and in the United States.
Judges in the northern city of Lille, who have been investigating Strauss-Kahn and a small group of French businessmen and police officials for nearly two years, charged Strauss-Kahn and 12 others with pimping, or "aggravated procurement in a group." That charge carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a fine of 1.5 million euros, or about $2 million.
Tunisia pins killing on al-Qaida allies
TUNIS, Tunisia -- The government Friday blamed a violent Islamist extremist cell linked to al-Qaida for the killing of a top Tunisian political opposition leader and identified the chief suspect, a Parisian-born jihadist, as the person who had killed an opposition figure in February, saying he used the same automatic pistol in both assassinations.
The assertions, made by Interior Minister Lotfi Ben Jeddou, came as outrage simmered over the killing of the opposition leader, Mohammed Brahmi, an outspoken liberal politician, outside his home Thursday, witnessed by his wife and children. The public prosecutor's office said an autopsy showed that Brahmi, 58, had been hit with 14 bullets from a 9-mm weapon, six in his upper body and the others in his left leg.
The assassination of Brahmi, an outspoken critic of Ennahda, the moderate Islamist party in power, has revealed a deepening split between Tunisians who want a pluralistic democracy and hard-line Islamists who reject such a system.
-- Associated Press, New York Times
