Why?
Pray tell, why was Demetrius Parks walking the streets a free man when he had been arrested four times, for burglary, grand theft, opposing an officer and being a felon in possession of a firearm, since March 31?
We law-abiding citizens want to know who was responsible for this irresponsible act.
An innocent, upright human being has been murdered. 
Geraldine Hynes
Tampa
Enemy is us
Regarding U.S. demand fuels Mexican drug terror (Our Views, July 20):
Congrats to the editorial board. Finally! We have met the enemy, and it is us. Drugs are a poison that even the Mafia would not allow their members to use. However, it's good to know some of our nation's leaders are now addressing the poor American users' rights (not to be confused with responsibilities) by legalizing the poison.
Joseph M. Abad
Tampa
God's word
What a couple of most unusual letters to the editors we found in The Tampa Tribune July 19 (Fairy tale and Bible doesn't govern, Your Views). They were unusual in the sense that they demeaned, denigrated and ridiculed God and slandered him with the names of space genie, sad nosey loser and Prince Charming, and referred to the authors of the Bible as barely literate sheepherders and Bronze Age flat-earthers - all the while referring to Christians as outrageously ignorant and gullible people.
As one of those outrageously ignorant people, I was somewhat taken aback at  the anger and hatred contained in the letters since the writers had obviously rejected God and his word and were pursuing an uninhibited life. So what's the problem? I believe it is apparent that many people living a lifestyle that is rejected and condemned by the Bible, and homosexuality certainly is, resort to vilifying both God and his followers, with, I assume, the hope of making their choice of a lifestyle more acceptable, either to them or others.
But that is a losing argument since the Bible has been our moral standard since the inception of our nation, and the Bible condemns homosexual acts as an abomination, unnatural and an act of depravity. And the Bible is not subject to additions or deletions.
We can pass new laws accepting and promoting homosexuality and receive many court decisions doing the same, but it will never be accepted. The word of God will always stand and ultimately prevail.
Glenn N. Musselwhite
Brooksville
'Emptiness of religion'
Thank you for printing Fairy tale and Bible doesn't govern. These surprised me.
It's not often that the mainstream media show up the fallacies so firmly rooted in society's culture. Both of these letters showed clearly and conclusively the emptiness of religion built up over the centuries and its equally terrible grip on our thinking.
You dared the disapproval of many in your readership because you gave space to the truth. Again, thank you.
Abigail Ann Martin
Brandon
Lessons from Rays
After watching the Rays win another game on TV last Sunday, I watched the  30-minute Inside the Rays segment, covering two of the Rays' top relievers, that followed. Fernando Rodney and Joel Peralta are both from the Dominican Republic and are best friends on the team as well.
During the interviews, they both said that growing up in the same country is what first brought them together. They had so much in common, according to one of them. Just then, it occurred to me that Peralta looks very similar to George Zimmerman (light-skinned Hispanic with a similar body type). Fernando Rodney, however, has very dark skin - like Trayvon Martin.
Peralta and Rodney get along great. In addition, the fact that they both grew up in the same country created an immediate bond between them. This also got me to thinking: Why does the color of one's skin mean so much more in the United States than it does in the Dominican Republic?
Perhaps if we can find answers to this question, we will be more successful improving race relations in our own country, cities, towns and neighborhoods. If someone would like to start a task force to look into this, count me in.
Jim Mullen
Lutz
Rays need new ideas
The letter in last Saturday's View's section (Alternatives for Rays) is close to being right on.
We are Rays fans and season-ticket holders and travel 45 miles each way to the games. We pay about $50 for each seat per game, and parking is at least $15.
Food costs a small fortune - $5 hot dogs and pretzels, and $8 beers. It's not cheap to go to a game.
That being said, think about this: Tropicana field is old but adequate. There are no rain-outs, it's 72-degrees inside and it's somewhat easy to get to.
The Rays organization should think about this. Lower the parking fees and some of the food prices. Lower the price of tickets all around, and for season-tickets holders. Make it easier for the fans to fill their seats, and the numbers will add up.
Yes, building a new stadium closer to me would be fine, but is that the answer? Look at what happened to the Marlins - a new stadium did nothing for their attendance, and there are a lot more people in Miami.
If you want to ruin the Rays' fan base, don't even think about moving them out of the state.
Rays' management has to wake up and smell the flowers. We love our Rays, but you guys have to come up with some new ideas and make it cheaper for us to fill your seats.
Go Rays!
Al Dawson
Port Richey
