On Friday, the president chose to educate more than 85 percent of the country about what it is like to grow up black. The problem is not an uneducated society, but one that is very aware of crime and who commits the majority of it.
When less than 15 percent of the population commits the majority of crime, what are rational people supposed to do? As a retired New York City police lieutenant, I would be remiss if I didn't advise family and friends to be aware and cautious when coming in contact with a group that is responsible for that amount of crime. The problem is when the black community chooses to blame its problems on others, instead of reducing crime committed by its race.
JOSEPH HASTINGS
Lake Worth 
Zimmerman shown through unfair lens
In response to our whiny president's race-baiting comment that he could have been TrayvonMartin, I say, "I could've been George Zimmerman."
I could have been legally confronting someone who's acting suspiciously, wandering through a neighborhood with no apparent direction in mind, assaulted for carrying out my legal responsibilities and knocked to the ground and pounded into submission.
While defending myself as best I can, I'm charged with a bogus crime. Later, I'm exonerated of these charges, but still I'm hounded by the liberal press. My life has been ruined, and I must go in hiding for fear of my life, in spite of being proclaimed "not guilty."
Yes, I, like anyone else who is not a member of the "progressive establishment," can be castigated as an evil person. This in spite of a history of showing compassion and support for minorities. Where's the fairness in this?
ROBBIE DAY
Palm Beach Gardens
Obama didn't like taste of justice
So our president in his first attempt last year to inject racism into the TrayvonMartin story says, "Trayvon could have been my son." Then he shut up for a while, at least on this matter, until justice was served. He didn't like the taste of it, and now says, "Trayvon could have been me 35 years ago."
Really, Mr. President? You were a thug in your teen years and would raise your son that way?
JEFF NORMAN
Jupiter
Calls for boycotts don't help end pain
I cannot imagine the pain a mother and father must feel when they are faced with the unexpected death of a son or daughter. My prayers go out to the parents of TrayvonMartin and to every other parent who has lost a child due to an act of violence.
Yet there was zero evidence that indicated this tragedy was a racial incident. As tragic as this loss of life was, it seems to have become a rallying point for extremists, especially those who only see black or white. I applaud the many blacks and whites who called for peaceful demonstrations to express their concerns and to call for dialogue as a means to bring a better understanding between races. I am saddened, disappointed and even a bit angry at the mindless racist rhetoric spewed by people like the Rev. Al Sharpton and others who seem more interested in keeping their tired and angry faces in the public eye by calling for nationwide demonstrations and a boycott of Florida.
J.D. CULBERTSON
Greenacres
Case shows pain of stereotyping
I can't imagine the horror that the Martin family must have felt when they found out that their son had been shot. The problem, though, wasn't that a black kid was out walking in the rain that night. The problem is that our politicians do not have the guts to toughen the gun laws, so everyone who wants to can get one and carry it around, like George Zimmerman did.
I know first-hand what it is like to face prejudice. When my parents decided to buy a house in 1953 in a nice development in New Jersey, six of the 16 families on the street put their homes up for sale because the Jews were moving in, and we were going to ruin the neighborhood. As a very young boy, I would get beaten up because I was Jewish. As a businessman, I have been questioned by a supplier if I enjoy "Jewing people down." I have heard people I thought were friends refer to Cadillacs as "Jewmobiles."
Stereotyping people, whether it be over color, religion or sex, is very dangerous, hurtful and stupid. Let's stop using the race card, and start using compassion.
STEVE SCHOENBERG
Lake Worth
Time to talk about guns, not race
President Barack Obama said, "I could have been Trayvon." By the same reasoning, he could have been O.J. Simpson, but I can't believe he would have been so vicious as to slaughter his ex-wife and her friend with a big knife.
Likewise, I doubt that he would have attacked George Zimmerman, though he would have had provocation. Let's talk about guns, not race. With stricter gun controls, Trayvon would be alive, and George Zimmerman would be in the hospital.
BOB MACLEOD
Wellington
Look at life in the South 50 years ago
Fifty years ago, when I was a kid growing up in the South, a white man could pick a fight with a black man, shoot him dead, claim self-defense and never be convicted of a crime. Things are different now, right?
JOHN ANDREW JONES
Palm Beach Gardens
West's statements make one wonder
I note with interest that Allen West claims that he never saw anyone follow him at the mall, never heard clicking locks or saw defensive positioning when he entered an elevator -- all because he was brought up by "awesome" parents. Could it be that we are to take this as a contrast to President Barack Obama's upbringing? Meanwhile, Mr. West did see up to "81" communists in Congress. Different folks evidently see the bogey man in different places.
CURT SALKE
Palm Beach Gardens
Ask charities how money is spent
Regarding the letter "Charities' salaries a cause for concern," we should ask all callers for charitable contributions two questions, which they are required to answer: What percentage of my donation goes to raising the funds and what actually is used for the purpose of the charity?
With very few exceptions, you will find out that more than 80 percent goes to raising the funds. One children's charity, when asked that question, said that 88 percent went to raising the funds and 12 percent to the charity.
When I said that's ridiculous, the reply was, "Well, they get the 12 percent." I am all for charitable giving, but when it becomes a joke, I'm not laughing.
FRANK BENCIVENGA
Hobe Sound
Check site before making donations
I was delighted to read the letter "Charities' salaries a cause for concern." Too many charities requesting money for their particular cause are paying outrageous salaries to their CEOs.
The Susan B. Komen case is probably a typical example.
As I receive each request for a donation, I check it out on Charity Navigator, and I do not donate unless they disclose their salaries and/or whatever else is requested.
I also look for a four-star rating, it being the top rating. I no longer feel "guilty" when denying a donation to a so-called charity after receiving gifts of nickels, return address stickers, calendars, notepads, attractive tote bags, jackets, T-shirts, magnets, etc. What will they think of next?
Just the other day, I received a donation request from a diabetes association. After checking on Charity Navigator, I discovered 25 other charities with very similar names.
This particular charity was not even listed. I cannot help but wonder if this and many of the other so-called charities are scams.
Some days, I can find five or six envelopes in my mailbox from assorted charities. And don't get me started on the phone calls I constantly receive from charities, usually around dinnertime.
I suppose the one comforting thought is that they are all proving essential in supporting that beleaguered, yet vital institution: the U.S. Postal Service.
BARBARA ROSENBLATT
Delray Beach
