Last weekend, the sweltering dustbowl of Victoria Park in east London played host to a crowd of beery, sweaty twenty-somethings in neon glasses forgetting the working week - soundtracked by house, hip-hop, and a touch of politics. 
In the cool of the half-empty big top John Talabot eases us in. The Spanish DJ channels a fitting Mike Skinner summertime look of buttoned-up polo, khaki shorts and baseball cap. Pop melodies, choral vocals and anthemic samples knocked out on his drum machine show that the laidback charm of his debut album fIN works in a festival setting. His track "Destiny", with its atmospheric howls, makes for the first dance of the day.
On the main stage, Charlie Wilson is accompanied by a brassband in primary-coloured suits, like Madness on acid. The perennial David Rodigan does his crowd-pleasing best with a set of sunshine music. Finishing up with a Bob Marley duo of "Is This Love" and "One Love", just as the evening breeze picks up, is a winner.
Wiley lifts energy levels with opener "Wearing My Rolex" to which the crowd, of course, knows every word. Hackneyites Rudimental give a triumphant home-turf set. A cover of "Ready or Not" by the Fugees embellished with their trademark drum'n'bass skitter and trumpet bursts sounds good against the sunset.
For a hip-hop-heavy line-up, it's notable that Jurassic 5 and DJ Yoda are the only ones to scratch. J5 provide goosebump-inducing politics, asking the crowd to put a fist in the air for Trayvon Martin. Azealia Banks dedicates her set to him that evening, as does D'Angelo a new track.
Despite a decade away, the Brown Sugar singer is funky, soulful, sexual and shows he still has it. Jamie Jones tops his Hot Creations-curated line-up channelling Miami beach party with white lights, palm trees and his genre-defining take on house.
For anyone expecting the bashful, self-deprecating panel show-presenting Mark Ronson, the gum-chewing party boy and his two MCs may shock. Playing A$AP into Kendrick into Kanye into Jay-Z, he confirms his record box is still put together with the crowd in mind.
But Saturday night is all about East End boy Plan B who fills the stage with a full live band, vivid lighting and plenty of hype men. Asking the crowd to play their air violins, he gives a rowdy performance of "Ill Manors", accompanied by flares, flames, and scratch guitar. He finishes with a chant of "Oggy, oggy, oggy, oi, oi, oi", ubiquitous through the weekend, and gets rapturous applause from the crowd - in all their beery, sweaty glory.
