We must do better on health
As thousands of Monterey Bay workers and families participate in nonprofit insurance plans, UNITE HERE Local 483 has deep concerns about the Affordable Care Act, also known as ObamaCare.
First, the law creates an incentive for employers to keep employees' hours below 30 hours a week to avoid health care obligations.
Second, the Affordable Care Act excludes participants in nonprofit health plans like ours from receiving subsidies for which their income level qualifies them. The subsidies will go primarily to a few for-profit insurance plans. 
Third, not only are we excluded from receiving premium subsidies, nonprofit plans will be taxed to benefit for-profit plans.
The restrictions will make nonprofit plans unsustainable, and will rid the health care market of viable alternatives to the big health insurance companies. As it stands, the ACA will be a multibillion-dollar tax expansion going directly to benefit for-profit health plans.
The president promised those of us who like our health care plan would be able to keep it. That promise will be broken, unless the president or Congress makes common-sense corrections to these problems. Millions of Americans will be hurt by the health care law intended to help them, unless we do better.
Hector H. AzpilcuetaVice president, UNITE HERE local 483
Better ways to allocate money for homeless
I see that thecity of Monterey has taken $40,000 out of the budget and allocated it for homeless charities.
They are also considering different ideas for homeless parking in Monterey.
The $40,000 should go directly to the Salvation Army. If you look at its website, it provides food, washing, clothing, counseling, etc.
The city should provide a bus ticket to help get them there.
But any idea of providing parking is going to create a problem and it will get worse.
Why don't we ask local business to give an option to donate at the checkout? I would gladly do so to a worthy homeless charity.
But at the same time, please, please do something about the panhandlers!
I am sick to death of dodging a flying cup every time I go to Walgreens and seeing the piles of trash on the open space on the corner of Soledad Drive and Munras Avenue!
By the way, why are these panhandlers not waiting outside Home Depot for work like the immigrants do?
Hurley AshleyMonterey
Zimmerman finds unlikely allies
It was rather refreshing to get emails from my friends on the right who finally took a break from blaming Latins for almost everything wrong in America to jumping to their defense in the name of the National Rifle Association.
Let's face it, the George Zimmerman that appeared in the Florida courtroom with hair on his head and none on his face looked quite different than the one with shaven head and scruffy beard chasing TrayvonMartin.
If he had been following some of these same guys in anything but a truck full of lawnmowers, Zimmerman may have heard a few shots ring out that weren't from his gun.
These are the same guys that say that the girl who was raped deserved it because she was wearing short shorts and a low-cut blouse.
How dare a 17-year-old black kid wear a hoodie.
The right thing for Martin to do was to ignore the scary-looking skinhead following him and skedaddle.
Poor Zimmerman can only hope that they don't move him to Arizona, where that sheriff will say "Zimmerman? that's funny you don't look like a Zimmerman."
Lew GoodkinCarmel Valley
Racists come in many colors
I see that a few readers of The Herald have taken umbrage withmy reference in a previous letter to George Zimmerman being half-Hispanic and half-Jewish.
His father is ethnically Jewish, but a Catholic by choice, certainly not unlike a lot of ethnic Jews who have embraced Christianity. I am 100 percent Jewish and yet I choose to be an atheist. Is the fact I am atheist make me less Jewish?
My skin color is what would be considered Caucasian, but we ethnic Jews are not Caucasian by strict definition. Therefore, by extension, George Zimmerman is not "white," he is by consensus of ethnology a man of color, just as TrayvonMartin was a man of color. Therefore, the killing of Martin by Zimmerman is a crime of color on color.
Racism was not invented by any specific ethnic group.
Racism is not what whites do to people of color, it is what every ethnic group does to every other ethnic group. There are black racists and Hispanic racists and Arab racists and Jewish racists and Asian racists and white racists and so forth.
Charles GreenleafBig Sur
Letter not a defense of religious terrorism
The suggestion thatmy letter , which included a brief list of various acts of religious terrorism, was in any way a defense of Islamic terrorism clearly shows which religious tunnel the other writers' look through.
Craig SchiedingSeaside
Civilians still caught in crossfire
Many Americans, including some recent Herald letter writers, have a blind spot when it comes to recognizing what exactly is an act of "terrorism."
Because of that ignorance, they feel justified stating there is only one religion at this time in history   Islam   which commits acts of terrorism. This conveniently overlooks the actions of the only country in the world with military bases and soldiers all across the globe, which bombs Muslim nations on a regular basis killing numerous civilians in the process.
Hint: That particular country happens to be a predominantly Christian one. Of course, the American media wouldn't think of labeling such aggression by our country (remember "shock and awe"?) as "terrorism." But whether killed by a suicide bomber or sniper, a uniformed soldier or an unmanned drone, the innocent civilian ends up just as dead.
Arlen GrossmanDel Rey Oaks
