Justice certainly was not served
I am deeply disturbed by those who proclaim "justice was served" in the TrayvonMartin case.
It should be a crime, beyond any reasonable doubt, for a man to take a loaded gun, ignore instructions from an emergency dispatcher, stalk an innocent teenager and kill him after a confrontation that, regardless of who swung first or who swung at all, was the result of the killer's aggressive behavior.
But under Florida's stand-your-ground law, "justice was served." While Florida may be the worst state, it's not alone. Some 20 states have passed similar laws due to lobbying by the NRA and ALEC, and passed by tea party Republican legislatures. It is they who are guilty of murdering Martin. 
How many more will die before these awful laws are taken off the books? In the meantime, the lessons are clear: If you are black and living in a stand-your-ground state, arm yourself and, when you feel threatened, shoot to kill. If you don't carry a gun, stay out of Florida.
John Bursch
Martinez
Double jeopardy for Zimmerman?
George Zimmerman was tried by a jury of his peers and found not guilty of all charges. That's good enough for me.
Unfortunately, I believe this verdict doesn't fit the U.S. government's domestic or international Balkanization agenda.
Initially, President Barack Obama stated we should accept the jury's verdict. Then he reversed course and inserted himself into the fray, stating he could "feel the pain" as he could have been young TrayvonMartin early in life. Excuse me? Obama was raised in Hawaii by middle-class white grandparents. Why didn't the president choose to speak out on the huge problem of black-on-black crimes?
Next up comes Attorney General Eric Holder, of "fast and furious" fame, threatening to prosecute Zimmerman for violating Martin's civil rights -- effectively placing Zimmerman under double jeopardy -- and a review of state stand-your-ground laws.
In my opinion, all this hype is nothing more than another attack on our Second Amendment right to self-defense against violent attacks.
Today's reality: When guns are outlawed, only the government will have guns.
Marilynne L. Mellander
El Sobrante
Strikes by public servants not OK
Union boss Pete Castelli has threatened to call another BART strike.
He seems to have no concept (or doesn't care) that collective bargaining by public employee unions has different implications than collective bargaining by private employee unions.
The nature of public services gives them a monopoly. A New York judge said, "Nothing is more dangerous to public welfare than to admit that hired servants of the state can dictate conditions under which they will carry on essential services vital to the welfare, safety and security of the citizen."
The words "safety" and "security" are words of special note that our legislators should take seriously. It may be time to pass a law disallowing strikes by public servants.
Even President Franklin Roosevelt, who was a big friend of private sector unions, drew the line when it came to government workers. Anyone who participates in shutting down public transportation should be fired. I am sure some of the 2 million unemployed Californians would be glad to take the jobs.
Jacqueline Cloidt
Orinda
Safety of the city should come first
The city of El Cerrito is asking for suggestions for improvement to make the city safer and a more pleasant place in which to live. Good goals.
So far, however, most of what I've seen on the city's behalf are a number of twirly things hanging from poles along San Pablo Avenue and bicycle rings that no one seems to use along the street.
If El Cerrito is really interested in promoting safety, I can think of two important safety measures.
Fix all the cracks and holes in the sidewalks, which cause falls resulting in injuries to walkers.
Plant trees to provide not only shade but to help reduce carbon monoxide, which in turn improve air quality.
These are basic improvements the city should be providing. Twirly things are nice but should come last in money spent. Safety and regular maintenance should come first in city budgets.
Geraldine Judt
El Cerrito
