AS A former Philadelphian, I wanted to respond to Stephanie Farr's excellent "Where's the Fuss?" cover story: 
As a black male raised in the unforgiving streets of North Philly (22nd and Lehigh), I couldn't agree more. Sadly, Trayvon Martin's death, and the upheaval that followed, culminating with the acquittal of George Zimmerman, will fade in time and we will continue to have the streets of Philly and other areas of the nation littered with bodies of young black (mostly) males. We will continue to have young black (mostly) male mug-shot pictures that could be tapes tried together into a quilt that would stretch from coast to coast. It's sickening, it's sad and I'm disgusted.  
Yes, Zimmerman profiled Martin based on stereotypes . . . but they were stereotypes that we (young black males) consistently perpetuate. We're angry that Zimmerman "stalked" and confronted Martin based on his appearance; meanwhile, on the other side of town, three hooded black teenagers burglarized a home. It's tragic. 
We are losing generations of future professionals to a conscious ignorance. These rallies are laughable because for all the posturing, protesting and tears that fall, inevitably another "event" will rise to national prominence and we get to do it all over again. I remember the Million Man March in D.C. and the change and greater awareness that it was supposed to help usher in. What has followed are a million more deaths, a million more incarcerations, a million more drop outs, a million more lost black boys who grow into lost black men that feed the cycle of a self-imposed genocide that should probably qualify us for protection via the Endangered Species Act. 
Marshall K. Miles 
Charlotte, N.C. 
Pol for Polaneczky 
I want to applaud the column "A Simple Email Helps Fill City-Services Gap," by Ronnie Polaneczky. In the 6th District, I implemented the Bad Neighbor Initiative to both educate our neighbors about blighted properties and to hold those property owners accountable for their mismanagement. Absentee landlords and abandoned properties erode the quality of life in our neighborhoods. Your column reinforced the belief that these remain citywide issues. 
In the 6th District alone, we've identified more than 2,500 nuisance properties and subpoenaed select landlords to testify before City Council. In addition, we've identified more than $11 million in tax-delinquent rental properties in the 6th District alone - enough to hire more than 230 teachers or police officers if those monies were collected. 
Philadelphia has often been called a "city of neighborhoods." We can't expect those neighborhoods to flourish if they are full of blighted and ignored properties maintained by bad neighbors. I've worked hard to identify and fix these issues in my first term, but I can't do it alone - my office even released the City Hall app for residents to report similar issues. This column was a great reminder that there is more work to do. 
Bobby Henon 
City councilman, 6th District 
