RACIAL tensions in the United States are likely to deteriorate if greater efforts are not made to narrow the rich-poor divide and create jobs for hard-pressed ordinary Americans, President Barack Obama has warned. 
 Urging Washington to give up political point-scoring and focus on rebuilding America's sluggish economy, Mr Obama said that years of stagnant wages and depressed incomes had left people "anxious" and "frustrated".
 "Racial tensions won't get better," he predicted in an interview with The New York Times. "They may get worse, because people will feel as if they've got to compete with some other group to get scraps from a shrinking pot. If the economy is growing, everybody feels invested."
 In recent weeks America has re-examined the race debate following the acquittal of George Zimmerman, a neighbourhood watch captain, who shot dead the black teenager Trayvon Martin in Sanford, Florida.
 Next month also marks the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, when the civil rights leader Martin Luther King delivered his "I have a dream" speech - an event that Mr Obama said was not just about race, but more fundamentally about economic opportunity.
"I always remind people - and, in fact, I have a copy of the original programme in my office, framed - that that was a march for jobs and justice; that there was a massive economic component to that," he said.
 "When you think about the coalition that brought about civil rights, it wasn't just folks who believed in racial equality; it was people who believed in working folks having a fair shot."
 This week Mr Obama will continue a national tour to push his inclusive economic message, giving a speech in Chattanooga, Tennessee. The president has been scorned by Republicans for his attempt to speak over the heads of Washington's gridlocked Congress, with senior Republican leaders calling for him "get back to his desk" and cut deals, rather than making campaign-style speeches.
 For his part, Mr Obama has made little effort to hide his disdain for the Republican-controlled House of Representatives, which blocked gun reform after the Sandy Hook massacre, looks likely to block immigration reform and is spoiling for another budget fight in this autumn.
 "Congress moves at such a glacial pace these days that sometimes if you start a bill like immigration and you're thinking this should be done by now, it seems to take a year of folks just sitting around spinning their wheels," he said. "There's not an action that I take that you don't have some folks in Congress who say that I'm usurping my authority. Some of those folks think I usurp my authority by having the gall to win the presidency."
