RACISM
Activist stir pot
It is indeed tragic when a young person dies. But hatemongering, death threats and race-baiting are just as tragic. Our president famously said, "Let's not jump to conclusions," when a Muslim terrorist cried, "Allah is Great" as he shot dozens of people at Fort Hood. He refused to call the Boston bombing "Muslim terrorism."
President Obama wasted no time, however, jumping to conclusions about the George Zimmerman trial in Sanford, Fla., where I was born and raised. He said, "I am TrayvonMartin." Does he now support mob rule? Does he side with the Black Panthers who have put a price on Zimmerman's head? Did he hear all the evidence as the jurors did? Zimmerman may have used poor judgment in following Martin, but that is no crime. The instigator was Martin, who jumped on Zimmerman and bashed his head into the sidewalk. That is a crime. 
The liberal media and black activists always seem to show up to stir the racial pot whenever a non-black kills a black person, no matter the circumstance. Hundreds of black men are killed every year in Detroit, Philadelphia and Chicago by other black men. Where is the outcry? My question is, if Martin had killed Zimmerman by bashing his head into the sidewalk one too many times, would Obama still be saying, "I am TrayvonMartin?"
Perhaps I am nave or ignorant, but I don't believe most people care what color a person's skin is. What matters is one's speech, actions and character. That is what Martin Luther King wanted. To the black activists of today, however, everything is based upon the color of one's skin. And that is racism, which King fought against his whole life. With racial harmony, the activists of today would have no job, nor would they have a voice. So to the detriment of society they continue to stir the pot.
DIANE SMITH, Topeka
URBAN WILDLIFE
Protect pets
We live near S.W. 12th Street and Fairlawn Road and are being invaded by coyotes. I saw three in our yard recently, and a neighbor lady saw five or six a couple of days later, also in our yard. Another coyote was seen on our street, and a driver saw one crossing Fairlawn.
It is rather interesting to think of seeing and hearing them here in the city, and I love to hear them howl at night. It reminds me of living in the country. But cats or small dogs that are allowed to run loose could easily become a meal for a coyote. They have mostly been seen at night, but they do move around during the daytime, too. So please, keep your pets penned up or inside.
PHYLLIS PERRY, Topeka
ENERGY COSTS
No savings here
I had high hopes about this summer being cooler than previous years and reducing my electric bill. However, along comes Westar Energy to dash any hopes that I can ever do anything whatsoever to control my energy costs.
I wish I could get a raise as often as Westar seems to be able to. I can't remember the last time I saw a Westar truck that wasn't new.
I believe Westar Energy has a money Jones that we can no longer afford to support. But since most of us can't afford to support Kansas politicians, likely we'll pay more to a company that can afford to donate.
DAVID HEWITT, Topeka
