TALLAHASSEE
While protesters continued to occupy the first floor of the Capitol Monday, Senate President Don Gaetz said he does not see any reason to call a special session to address some of the issues raised by the activists after the outcome of the George Zimmerman trial. 
"I stand with Gov. Scott and I stand with Speaker Weatherford," Gaetz said, referring to the two other state leaders who have rejected a call for a special session.
The protesters want lawmakers to use the special session to review the state's "stand your ground" self-defense law, racial profiling and the disciplinary treatment of minority youth in Florida schools. The protest began shortly after a jury found Zimmerman not guilty of shooting Trayvon Martin, an unarmed 17-year-old.
But Gaetz, R-Niceville, who has the power to call a special session by joint agreement with the House speaker, said no one has advanced any specific plans for a session.
"I think you call a special session of the Legislature when you have a landing zone that is agreed upon on an issue," Gaetz said. "You don't call a special session, I don't think, and just bring 160 politicians to town and just turn them loose and hope it all works out. I don't think that's the right thing to do."
He also noted no legislation has thus far been filed. "I'm not sure what a special session would accomplish," he said.
Gaetz said he could "sympathize" with the frustration of the protesters, while also noting the Zimmerman trial ended with a decision by the jury.
"Those who are protesting are exercising their rights as Americans just as those who served on the jury exercised their responsibilities as a jury of peers," Gaetz said.
Gaetz also acknowledged there is a provision in the state constitution that would allow a special session to be called without approval by the Senate president, House speaker or governor. It would require a petition from 20 percent of the House and Senate members and then approved by three-fifths of the overall membership. Gaetz said the procedure has never been successfully invoked.
