PHILADELPHIA -- The mother of TrayvonMartin, the unarmed Florida teenager whose fatal shooting by a neighborhood watch volunteer has provoked a national debate over racial profiling and gun laws, appealed to a crowd of African-American advocates here Friday to ''use my broken heart'' to prevent a repeat of what happened to her son.
''My message to you is, please use my story, please use my tragedy, please use my broken heart to say to yourself, 'We cannot let this happen to anybody else's child,' '' Sybrina Fulton said during a brief but emotional luncheon talk to a gathering of the National Urban League. She received a standing ovation. 
Her appearance came on the heels of comments by a juror in the case who said Thursday that she believed Mr. Zimmerman ''got away with murder.'' Though the comment, in an interview with ABC's ''Good Morning America,'' has been the subject of much conversation at the conference, Ms. Fulton did not address it in her remarks Friday. (On Thursday night, Ms. Fulton issued a statement saying it had been ''devastating for my family'' to hear what ''we already knew in our hearts to be true.'')
On Friday, she spoke passionately, and deeply personally, about the faith that she said has carried her through since February 2012, when Mr. Zimmerman killed her 17-year-old son as he was walking home after buying snacks.
''I speak to you as Trayvon's mother,'' she said. ''I speak to you as a parent, and the absolutely worst telephone call you can receive as a parent is to know that your son -- your son -- you will never kiss again. I'm just asking you to wrap your mind around that, wrap your mind around: No prom for Trayvon. No high school graduation for Trayvon. No college for Trayvon. No grandkids coming from Trayvon, all because of a law, a law that has prevented the person who shot and killed my son to be held accountable and to pay for his awful crime.''
In the weeks since Mr. Zimmerman was acquitted, Ms. Fulton and Trayvon's father, Tracy Martin, have taken a higher profile, drawing praise from President Obama for handling a difficult situation with grace. Amid protests over the verdict, they have spoken out on national television; Ms. Fulton addressed a vigil in Manhattan last Saturday. Mr. Martin addressed the Congressional Black Caucus in Washington on Wednesday.
Together, they are pressing the federal government to consider federal civil rights charges against Mr. Zimmerman, and they are waging a campaign to amend expanded self-defense statutes like the one in Florida, known as Stand Your Ground laws, that extend beyond the home the right to use force in a dangerous situation. They are also seeking support for the nonprofit group they established in their son's name.
About 6,000 people are here for the Urban League meeting, which comes against the backdrop of plans to commemorate the 50th anniversary next month of the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, at which the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his now-famous ''I Have a Dream'' speech. Earlier Friday, the audience heard from civil rights leaders like the Rev. Al Sharpton, the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Representative John Lewis, the Georgia Democrat, as well as the Martin family lawyer, Benjamin Crump.
The August celebration has taken on a new sense of urgency, many here said, in light of the Martin case and also the Supreme Court's recent decision to overturn a key section of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Marc Morial, the former New Orleans mayor and president of the National Urban League, urged attendees on Friday to return to Washington next month.
''Everything has a different sense because of what's happened in the last 30 days,'' Mr. Morial said in an interview.
