TALLAHASSEE | In the two weeks since a group of protesters initiated a sit-in in Gov. Rick Scott's office to push for a special legislative session, organizers point to growing momentum, but it remains unclear if their ultimate goal is within reach.
The protesters, led by a group called the Dream Defenders, have received national spotlight, secured a meeting with Scott, and claim to have support of roughly 20 percent of the Legislature. 
They are seeking passage of the "Trayvon Martin Civil Rights Act," which would repeal the "stand your ground" law, reform Florida's zero tolerance policies, and consider new laws that would target racial profiling.
"Stand your ground" received national attention after Martin, 17, was killed in Seminole County by George Zimmerman, who claimed self-defense. Though Zimmerman, who was acquitted, did not focus on "stand your ground" during the trial, the verdict sparked protests across the country from those who want the laws repealed.
After 14 days, protesters in Florida say they have momentum at their back, but it remains unlikely that Scott will call lawmakers back to Tallahassee for a special legislative session. On the second night of protests, he met with organizers and told them he opposes the idea and continues to support the law.
"I personally believe that the 'stand your ground' law should stay on the books," he said.
That position could spell a lengthy standoff with protesters who say they are not leaving Scott's office until a special session is called.
"We are educating more people about the issues, and the more they learn about the issues the more they support us," said Gonzalo Vizcardo, an organizer with Dream Defenders.
He said protesters plan to announce Tuesday the names of roughly 20 percent of the Legislature that have either signed, or plan to sign formal letters of support. State law allows Secretary of State Ken Detzner to ask the 160 members of the Legislature if they want a special session. If 32 members agree to the special session, it then requires a three-fifths vote.
So far, organizers have announced the support of five House Democrats, but no Republicans. They met Monday with state Rep. Halsey Beshears, a Monticello Republican, who said he supports "stand your ground."
Underlying a state of tension between the protesters and GOP lawmakers, when Beshears went to the bathroom, a small group of protesters plotted a strategy for getting the second-year to talk more freely.
It focused on creating gaps of silence.
"Force him to respond," said Barbara DeVane, who is with Florida Now.
The Florida Department of Law Enforcement says the protesters have cost the state an additional $77,697 in overtime costs. Department spokeswoman Gretl Plessenger says there have been no reports of damage. In a precautionary step, officials have removed portraits of past governors that line the hallway leading to Scott's office.
She also refuted claims protesters made over the weekend that Capitol Police would not let staffers bring protesters food.
"When the Capitol closes, Capitol Police will not open the door for anyone," Plessenger said. "Those rules have been in place the first two weekends."
Supporters of "stand your ground" point to recent polls that show 50 percent of Floridians support the law, a much higher percentage than those who oppose it.
The most recent poll showed 50 percent want the law to remain unchanged, 31 percent want it changed, while just 13 percent of people want a full repeal. The poll was conducted by Republican firm Viewpoint Florida, but it reflects other recent polls on the law.
Matt Dixon: (352) 233-0777
