The video is shocking. A solitary man apparently waving a knife on an empty Toronto streetcar is shot and killed by police. Nine shots in all - three in one burst and then another six together - are heard within 13 seconds. Throughout the video, which lasts about two minutes, there are demands from the police to "drop the knife!" The man yells obscenities at the police and is warned words that sound like: "If you take one step in this direction you're finished." The shots started as the man appeared to be starting to leave the streetcar and moving towards the police.
Since the shooting there have been calls for "justice" and comparisons to the Trayvon Martin case. Vigils are planned and the man's family is hiring a lawyer. The police are being held to account for what is being widely portrayed as an overreaction bordering on outright murder. 
But is it so? Videos can be highly misleading and drawing conclusions after watching, and re-watching, a short video is very different from dealing with a man with a knife. The video shows the man walking to the streetcar door and apparently beginning to leave the streetcar, still holding the knife and approaching the police. It was only then that the police fired. The video will be scrutinized by experts, but even those trained in such investigations will never be in that moment the way the officers on the scene were.
Still, the investigation must move forward, to determine whether this sad incident constitutes a justified police shooting. The law regarding deadly force is very clear. A police officer is justified in using force that is likely to cause death or grievous bodily harm if the police officer "believes on reasonable grounds that the force is necessary for the purpose of protecting the [police officer] or any other person from imminent or future death or grievous bodily harm."
The courts have been clear that actions taken in the heat of the moment are to be judged on the basis of the circumstances. Here police were dealing with an armed man, refusing to put down his weapon and who was approaching the police in what seemed like a threatening manner. On the surface, it would seem that the police involved have a legitimate claim to having no alternative but the use of deadly force.
In Ontario, police are trained in a use-of-force protocol and do not resort to deadly force on a regular basis. That is why this story is so extraordinary. People are, thank heavens, seldom killed by police gunfire in Ontario. Police know their primary responsibility is to preserve and protect life and that any use of force is only to ensure public safety.
But police officer safety is essential to public safety. Ignoring a dangerous individual, allowing them, for example, to leave the area so as to avoid using deadly force, exposes the public at large to grave risk.
The death of anyone is a tragedy. The death of a citizen at the hands of police always warrants the fullest investigation. It may be that Toronto police did have alternatives and should have taken other steps. But such is not obvious from the video.
Police are often accused of making a rush to judgment - in this case it may be that a rush to judgment is being made against the police. There will be an investigation and until then we should keep an open mind and accept the police may well have been justified in their actions.
James Morton is a lawyer and has argued for the justified use of force on many occasions. He is a past president of the Ontario Bar Association and practices in Ontario and Nunavut.
