During the summer the city Parks and Recreation Department offers summer swimming leagues. There are two, the public league and the private league. My children have been participating in these programs for at least 10 years.
Hundreds, if not thousands, of El Paso's children compete each summer. The teams my children have been on practice four days a week, getting up early on Saturday mornings for the meets.
The championship meets for the two leagues were held the past two weekends at the Pavo Real park pool. Yet I can only recall two times that in all the years my children have competed that I have seen in the news or read in the El Paso Times any coverage of these events. I am pretty sure these kids would love to see their names and results in the Sports section of the El Paso Times. 
If people are interested they can see the results on the city Parks and Rec website in the aquatics section under the summer swim league.
Ron Kraft East El Paso
City Council on right track
Great job, City Council, for denying former Mayor Cook reimbursement of legal fees. This is the kind of level-headed, clear thinking the council has lacked for many years.
Cook took this upon himself and disregarded the will of the people, so in true form he should own this on his own. There are more wrongs to be corrected. Go Oscar and crew!
Michael Horan East El Paso
Raising taxes without questions
Why is it when a taxing entity wants more money, taxes are raised without really any questions asked? How are we as tax payers to honestly believe in these extremely hard economic times that more taxes are really needed or is it a wish list? Are these taxing entities looking inward first for cost savings before looking outward for more revenue? I challenge the City Council to randomly poll "tax-paying" citizens around the city to find out what their constituents really think. Let's try the transparency idea and see where it takes the council. This should be an eye opener for sure.
Michael Horan East El Paso
So confused about killings
I'm confused. A mother kills her 2-year-old baby and is charged for murder. A mother chooses to kill her baby in the womb and goes to a clinic to have a doctor kill her baby.
The doctor has studied many years in the medical field and knows that a baby exists in the womb, and he kills the baby. No charges are filed against him.
All the protesters, women, men and parents, want the women to have the right to kill the baby in the womb. Yet all these protesters are alive because their mother (and father) chose to give birth. They don't understand this? This is the reason they are alive.
The solution is so simple. Don't get pregnant.
Then we have all the politicians who know the law, but vote in favor of women to kill the baby in the womb. Unfortunately this starts from the president, Supreme Court, Congress and some judges and elected officials.
In many ways we, the citizens of the country, are at fault for voting for the same officials over and over again. God forgive us for our actions.
Jose Aguilar East El Paso
Teachers should discuss Zimmerman
Though not talked about nearly as much as I thought it would locally, our social studies and language arts teachers may want to consider what kind of academic mileage we can get from a discussion about the George Zimmerman murder trial and the third branch of government. Despite what any of us might feel about the outcome of the trial and the verdict reached, the HOT (Higher Order Thinking) question -- How does our judicial branch and the Florida State Attorney's Office prosecute two firearms cases and reach such divergent outcomes?
In one case, prosecuted by Angela Corey, the Florida state attorney, under the provisions of "stand your ground," Marissa Alexander fired a warning shot into the wall of her home to frighten away a violent and abusive husband. She is found guilty of "unlawful discharge of a firearm and is later sentenced to 20 years in prison.
Under the same prosecutor, and under the provisions of the very same law, George Zimmerman shoots and kills TrayvonMartin, is acquitted and goes free.
How could the same state judicial system, with the same prosecutor, and under the provisions of the same law, reach such a different result?
Corey is one of the common denominators. The second, Alexander and TrayvonMartin are both black and both the victim. For Alexander, that court system confiscates her gun, sends her "to jail" and the other person, Zimmerman, is sent home with his gun.
Alexander put a bullet in the wall and Zimmerman put a boy in his grave and goes free. This is actually a great case study in any circle of academia as well as the NAACP, Border Network for Human Rights, MALDEF, etc.
Will our print and broadcast media step forward to facilitate such a dialogue?
Jerome Tilghman Northeast El Paso
