Re: "Obama reflects on verdict, race in U.S.; The president describes what it's like to be a black man in America," July 20 news story.
President Obama has launched yet another racist diatribe against an innocent white community which, largely, couldn't care less about a person's color. This is not 1960. More than 50 years of great progress, greater than anywhere on the planet, is tossed aside in an attempt to continue the victimhood of the black community. King, Cosby, and so many others are nothing but the wind when they call on blacks to take personal responsibility.
I do not lock my car when a black man passes. I don't care about skin color. The tragedy is that this president and his political operatives continue to stoke the fires of mistrust, continue to preach victimhood, and continue to make the color of a person's skin at birth the most important event of their lives. How demeaning! How condescending! How unnecessary.
Anthony T. Accetta, Denver 
* * *
President Obama's thoughtful speech on race in this country sounded exactly the right note to frame this discussion. He challenged each of us to raise our unconscious biases to consciousness in order to confront them and defeat them. Race and racism are difficult topics, but ignoring them does not advance understanding. I challenge those who immediately criticized the speech to listen to his words without their Obama hatred screens in place. I am proud of my president's leadership.
Antoinette Tadolini, Littleton
* * *
I am so disappointed (again) in our president taking such a racially combative stance in the Zimmerman/Martin case. He should be standing up for our Constitution and justice system by supporting the decision of a jury. The jury has spoken and said that they were not convinced of clear cut wrongdoing in the case.
Lee Downing, Aurora
* * *
Let me see if I have this right. The attorneys in the Zimmerman trial did not once bring up the subject of race as a factor in the self defense shooting of TrayvonMartin because all the facts and witnesses said otherwise. But what does President Obama do? Yep, you got it. He holds a White House press conference and brings race into the issue. Way to go, Mr. President why not throw gas on the fire?
Frank Canino, Denver
* * *
I have to take exception to those who are criticizing President Obama's speech as opening and/or exacerbating divisions in our society best left alone. Rather, I see his speech as sharing a very personal perspective that many of us who are not African American males could not have related to before he shared his perspective. This is the sort of leadership we should appreciate and expect from our first African American president. Yes, it is uncomfortable, but these are the sorts of discussions we need as a nation to get us to the next level in terms of ridding ourselves of racism.
John W. Thomas, Fort Collins
Another reason potential GOP candidates don't want to run
Re: "Scarcity of GOP candidates," July 21 letter to the editor.
Letter writer Zach Frederick comforts himself by rationalizing the GOP's current lack of credible candidates is due to them preferring private jobs over governing in a two party system. More likely, it's because potential GOP candidates are discouraged in the knowledge that their own party today wouldn't support what many in today's topsy turvy GOP might call "tax raising, soft on immigration RINOs" like Ronald Reagan.
Harry Doby, Aurora
Responses to Rep. Coffman's call for immigration reform
Re: "Time for immigration reform is now," July 21 guest commentary by U.S. Rep. Mike Coffman.
As an evangelical leader from Denver Seminary and a constituent of Colorado's 6th Congressional District, I was pleased to read Rep. Mike Coffman's guest commentary in last Sunday's Denver Post.
I was pleased for two reasons. First, the Bible is very clear about the matchless value of every human being and God's concern for immigrants. Second, I work with undocumented immigrants and attend a Hispanic church in Aurora. For me, immigration reform is personal. It is about friends and fellow Christians real people and families, with faces and names.
We need immigration reform that respects the God given dignity of all persons, as well as changes that constructively engage security and economic issues. Rep. Coffman's courageous call to work on our badly broken immigration system is imperative and one that needs bipartisan support. I hope our other representatives are willing to come together to support this pressing initiative.
M. Daniel Carroll, Centennial
* * *
Here we go again "Midterm Mike Coffman" comes across as thoughtful, compassionate and reasonable. Although if you read the last few paragraphs of his immigration article carefully, he uses the obstructionist language of border security and enforcement, "treated like any applicant" and a much higher standard for English proficiency and understanding of civic culture. He points a finger at employers but will be silent in Washington as industry diverts attention away from their role, reliance and profits.
If 6th Congressional District Coloradans want to elect someone who really supports immigration reform, Andrew Romanoff will bring that honest and compassionate commitment that so many of us are waiting for from Congress, especially the House.
Let's not be fooled again by Coffman, a staunch obstructionist Republican.
Mark Zaitz, Denver
With state fighting over water, why allow its use in fracking?
Re: "Tempers run high, unlike water," July 21 news story.
When our state's drought is so severe that neighbors are fighting neighbors over water, why is the oil and gas industry allowed to continue using the extraction method known as fracking? It has been reported that one fracked well requires a much as 5 million gallons of water. A well may be fracked multiple times. Unlike in agriculture or household use, most of that water never returns to the water cycle. It is permanently consumed. Can we afford to allow our most precious resource to be plundered in this way?
Lynn Cleveland, Centennial
Protecting Denver's parks
Re: "Missing the mark on Denver's parks," July 21 Susan Barnes Gelt column; and "Holding open space is a battle," July 21 Tom Noel column.
Kudos to Susan Barnes Gelt and Tom Noel for their columns in last Sunday's Denver Post regarding the critical importance of protecting existing parks and open space. Having parks and natural areas close to home where all of us but especially those with limited transportation, such as children and the elderly can connect with nature is vital to our quality of life.
Unfortunately, it seems that some government entities, including those responsible for protection of our parks and open space, do not share this perspective. Shameful examples are the case of Denver trading away part of Hentzell Park and the proposed Chatfield reallocation project, which would effectively remove 587 acres (approximately 15 percent) of park land from the heart of Chatfield State Park.
It is a sad situation when citizens have to resort to litigation to protect these irreplaceable public amenities.
Gene R. Reetz, Denver
* * *
Thank you for the park columns by Suan Barnes Gelt and Tom Noel. The issue in Denver parks is not the manager so much as the policy. Shoving parks into the city's revenue stream and selling them off is a deep misunderstanding of what the role of parks in our city should be.
Tom Morris, Denver
Limit the pay of CEOs
Re: "McBudget for the Boss," July 21 Al Lewis column (Wall Street Journal Sunday section in The Denver Post).
I always enjoy reading Al Lewis' Sunday column, usually about the rich gaming the system and getting richer at others' expense. Now we learn that the CEO of McDonald's makes 550 times the wages of his counter service employees. I am wondering what the CEO is doing to justify a salary of a quarter million dollars a week. Deciding when to relaunch the McRib?
Adjusted for inflation, minimum wage is 20 percent less than it was in 1967. It's time to limit CEO compensation to, say, 200 times the wage of the lowest paid employee. McDonald's employees should not be the serfs of Don Thompson's kingdom.
Jim Aldridge, Golden
Re: July 21 Mike Keefe editorial cartoon.
Mike Keefe's cartoon asks readers to guess the outcome of the trial if the TrayvonMartin/George Zimmerman roles had been reversed. How fast we forget O.J. Simpson.
Mike Mouton, Centennial
Mike Keefe's cartoon misses the mark. It implies that had the shooter been black, there would be a different trial verdict. Had George Zimmerman been black, there is no chance there would have been a trial.
Tom Graham, Arvada
If Mitt Romney had won the election and closed down the U.S. auto industry, just think how many more cities than Detroit would be bankrupt.
Carl Heck, Aspen
The Nick Cave production "Herd DAM" on July 19 at Civic Center was pure magic this season's best performance for the entertainment of all age groups. Bravo!
David Hite, Denver
Re: "Fighting back fire," July 22 news story.
How ironic that people once moved to the mountains to live in the forest. Now they must remove the forest to live in the mountains.
Doug Smith, Steamboat SpringsTo have your comments published in To the Point, send letters of 40 words or fewer to the address below.
To the Point
