Racism learned, it is not inborn 
Steve Arteman ("Racism perpetuated by people, government," July 25) wrote against the demonstrations and demand for justice for Trayvon Martin. He wrote juries are for determining who is guilty and judges are to determine the punishment. 
Judges and juries are people, and are wrong, too. Innocent people are found guilty and the guilty go free quite often.  
Even today, men and women are imprisoned for their race or because the judge and jury for whatever reason didn't believe their story. Mr. Arteman said the citizens and government of this nation need to quit allowing "special" treatment for race, nationality or religion, but we have freedom for that. 
We all have a different view of freedoms. But each of us should own our heritage, including you. You call it "hyphenated" when your race is put before "American" - German-American, Japanese-American, African-American. It has nothing to do with racism and everything to do with heritage. 
Racism won't end until it's stopped being taught. We are not born with those negative qualities, we are taught them. 
I was born in the South. My parents walked the fields hand-picking cotton. My grandparents were the offspring of slaves - actually owned by white folk. Although I personally endured the racism of the 1950s and 1960s of people like Gov. George Wallace and Sen. Strom Thurmon, I'm not a racist. I wasn't taught that way. 
I differ totally in Mr. Arteman's view on justice and racism. I actually think white Americans started it and white America must end it. 
Sammie Flakes 
Bloomington 
Flat tax unfairto the poor 
Today's news had a statement concerning changing Illinois tax laws, suggesting a flat tax would be more equitable. Such a person should try to live on a small income and meet the current regressive taxes in Illinois. 
Approximately 3.56 million households in the U.S. have household incomes of less than $5,000 a year. Fifty percent of the U.S. households have less than about $47,000 per year. 
Households in lower income brackets pay the same gasoline tax as those in the highest brackets. They pay the same 1 percent tax on food. Auto registration fees are the same for used cars as for Caddys and BMWs. They do not have enough income to buy pensions or take care of medical emergencies or education. 
Individuals promoting a flat tax should try to live on $92 a week. This has to include housing, clothing, food and the sales taxes we charge on their purchases. Members of the Legislature should live for a month every year on less than $400. 
It has been reported that there are over 100 households in Illinois with wealth assets greater than $1 billion. A flat tax on them? 
If you want to know why we don't get industry to move to Illinois, consider the median incomes and their educational attainments. Education costs but it is an investment in the future of the state. There is no evidence that supports an increase in the economy by lower taxes on the wealthy. 
Robert L. Cox 
Clinton 
Leaders fiddle while state burns 
Our state is in financial shambles. Illinois' credit rating is in the toilet. Our roads, highways and bridges are crumbling around us. Yet, our elected representatives find the time and the dollars to take junkets to Turkey and China. 
And now, we're poised to spend $71 million on land and untold millions more to build a third airport (the need for which is debatable at best) in the Chicago area. It is unbelievable and totally absurd! 
We're all being dragged down the "rabbit hole" of our state government, and Club "Nero" fiddles while Illinois burns! 
John Rehder 
Normal 
