PHILADELPHIA -- Two weeks after the man who killed her son was acquitted in a Florida court, the mother of TrayvonMartin took the stage Friday at the Pennsylvania Convention Center and spoke of the pain her son's loss has caused.
"Wrap your mind around no prom for Trayvon. No high school graduation for Trayvon. No college for Trayvon. No grandkids coming from Trayvon," Sybrina Fulton said in an emotional address at a National Urban League luncheon. "All because of a law -- a law that has prevented the person who shot and killed my son to be held accountable and to pay for his awful crime." 
On July 13, a jury found George Zimmerman not guilty of second-degree murder in the death of Martin, 17, in February 2012.
Mr. Zimmerman was accused of fatally shooting Martin once in the chest. The defense said Mr. Zimmerman feared for his life when the two got into an altercation in a gated community in Sanford, Fla. Critics said Mr. Zimmerman profiled Martin, who was black, and that his unfounded suspicion of the youth led to the confrontation. Mr. Zimmerman is of Latino ancestry.
In the aftermath of the verdict, people ranging from Martin's family to President Barack Obama have criticized Florida laws that expansively define what constitutes self-defense.
Juror B29, the second of the six-woman panel to publicly speak, on Friday told Robin Roberts of "Good Morning America" that she ached for Martin's grieving family, and that Mr. Zimmerman "got away with murder." A portion of the interview had been aired Thursday evening.
"You can't put the man in jail, even though in our hearts we felt he was guilty," said the juror, a 36-year-old nursing assistant and mother of eight. "But we had to grab our hearts and put it aside and look at the evidence."
She said there wasn't enough proof under Florida law to convict Zimmerman.
"George Zimmerman got away with murder, but you can't get away from God," she said. "And at the end of the day, he's going to have a lot of questions and answers he has to deal with. [But] the law couldn't prove it."
The juror said she pushed for Mr. Zimmerman's conviction until she decided on the second day of deliberations that there wasn't enough definitive proof.
Mr. Zimmerman's defense team had argued that he killed Martin in self-defense. The jury was also allowed to consider a lesser charge of manslaughter.
Ms. Fulton said in a statement that the juror's comment was "devastating for my family to hear." But at the Urban League, Ms. Fulton did not address that morning's news. She explained that in the aftermath of tragedy, she was able to stand and advocate for her son's legacy only because of her belief in God.
"At times, I feel like I'm a broken vessel. At times, I don't know if I'm going or coming," Ms. Fulton said to a ballroom crowd of hundreds that greeted her with a standing ovation when she entered the room. "But I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that God is using me, and God is using my family, to make a change -- to make a difference.
"Please use my story, please use my tragedy, please use my broken heart to say to yourself, 'We cannot let this happen to anybody else's child,' " she said.
The bereaved mother told the crowd that on the car ride on her way to the Urban League event, she gave her driver a business card featuring a black-and-white photo of her dead son. His response touched her. "That's my son, too," she said he replied, convincing Ms. Fulton that her son's death has resonated.
She and her ex-husband, Tracy Martin, created the TrayvonMartin Foundation in March 2012, one month after their son's death, to raise awareness about violent crime.
Earlier Friday morning, Martin family attorney Benjamin Crump touched on similar themes at the Union League gathering. He said self-defense laws such as those in Florida compromise the rights of children.
"Our children are not criminals. Our children are not thugs. Our children have the right to walk in peace from the 7-Eleven," Mr. Crump said. "They have the right to walk anywhere. They have a right to legally be, without being profiled, followed and confronted."
Mr. Crump called Mr. Zimmerman a "strange, creepy man," and said the state's laws he used to justify the killing are "dangerous to our children." Laws should say "You cannot be the aggressor; you cannot start the confrontation; you cannot go pick the fight and then kill the person and say, 'I was standing my ground,' " Mr. Crump said. "It makes no sense."
