Tearing down the highway to New York city, we take a turn-off looking for a cheap motel.
Instead, we find ourselves driving along North Street, Greenwich, one of the wealthiest streets in one of the wealthiest towns in the wealthiest country in the world.
There are definitely no rooms for rent in these mega mansions. We've managed to stumble into one of the most obscenely wealthy areas per capita in the world. Or, as one local real estate agent puts it: ``Known as `the gateway to New England', Greenwich provides entry into an exclusive club of prosperity for those fortunate enough to live within its borders.'' 
There are no sidewalks here. Only beech tree lined streets with neatly trimmed verges, thick-stone walling and automatic gates. But the walls are not so high as to obscure an open view of some of the most amazingly opulent houses I've ever seen in my life. Any one of these houses could rank as the best house in Australia.
If you have a cool $US10 million you can secure an entry-level home in the region with six bedrooms and seven bathrooms set on 12 acres. One such property currently on the market promises an ``Enthralling two-storey entrance foyer, with inlaid limestone and wood flooring with sweeping circular staircase. Ballroom-sized sunken living room with beautiful coffered ceiling, limestone fireplace and French doors to the veranda.'' Sure, the Aussie dollar is good, but it's not THAT good.
This is Greenwich, in the state of Connecticut, about half an hour's drive to the north of New York and home to America's finance overlords -- it is old wealth and it is richest celebrities.
It's a place abundant in French doors, sweeping driveways, marble fireplaces, 3000-bottle wine cellars, front doors framed by stone colonnades, mahogany-panelled libraries with antique hemlock wood floors and dangling chandeliers. These houses have elevators.
In 2010, Aussie actor Mel Gibson sold his 75-acre, Tudor-style Greenwich home `The Mill', which he shared with his wife Robyn, for $24 million. It was listed again last year for $33 million.
This is the American dream. On steroids. Frankly, it's obscene.
One of things I've always admired about Americans is their ability to dream big. Their spirit of optimism, confidence and entrepreneurship is unique in the world. And it couldn't be any further from our Aussie tendency to tear down tall poppies and generally take harshly to anyone seen to big-note themselves.
Americans dreams big. And they fall hard. The US economy has been in, or at, the edge of recession since its housing and credit boom burst in 2008 causing the global financial crisis. American families have watched their real incomes go backwards. Unemployment remains near 8 per cent.
While on holiday there, we heard the news that the mayor of Detroit has declared that city bankrupt, its debts so high they will never be repaid. The population of Detroit has shrunk by a quarter since the car industry began to close.
But by far the biggest news story in America while we are there is the trial and acquittal of a man charged of racially profiling and shooting dead a young black man, Trayvon Martin, in Florida. We watch on TV as President Obama gives a heartfelt press conference calling for calm, while sorrowfully admitting, as a black man, it could have been him a few decades ago.
Another American president, in another time, declared ``all men are created equal''. In principle, that is true. But in practice, America has a long way to go.
Surveys of income mobility reveal that for all the rhetoric of being a ``land of opportunity'', America's poor have less chance of becoming rich than Australia's poor do.
A 2007 study by economist and federal Labor MP, Andrew Leigh, found the income of Australian sons were less determined by their father's pay packet than American sons.
Not only is Australia home to less extremes of wealth and poverty, it is also easier for Australians to move between the two extremes. Australia has managed to achieve this despite our high influx of migration with one in four Australians born overseas. It's harder to look at a person in the street in Australia and know, just by their ethnicity or the colour of their skin, how rich they are. According to the study by Leigh, it is this difference in the income mobility of immigrants in Australia that makes us so much more mobile than Americans. Of course, we've got our own obscenely rich people too. But there are less of them and with respect to those citizens of Sydney's Point Piper, they've got nothing on Greenwich.
And that's just how I'd like it. I'm proud to live in a country where the circumstances of your birth are less likely to determine your life. We're not perfect. But I wouldn't want to live anywhere else.
BY THE NUMBERS
$54.5 million
Price tag of Australia's second most expensive home, ``Altona'' in Point Piper, Sydney
..............................................................................................
$47 million
Purchase price for ``Coolong'', Australia's third most expensive house in Vaucluse
..............................................................................................
$44 million
Australia's fourth most expensive home ``Villa Veneto'' is on the prized Wolseley Road, Point Piper
..............................................................................................
$33.4 million
The next best house on Wolseley Road, ``Craig-y-more'', is Australia's fifth most expensive home
