July 28--Despite a call from President Barack Obama and protests in major U.S. cities, there seems to be little interest in revisiting, let alone repealing, Pennsylvania's version of the "stand your ground" law.
Stand your ground legislation differs from standard self-defense laws because it deals with people protecting themselves, or standing their ground, in a public place. 
Before Gov. Tom Corbett signed into law the state Castle Doctrine amendment to the self-defense law in 2011, Pennsylvanians had a duty to flee an attacker and could use deadly force only if they were trapped and had no other option.
Pennsylvania's law differs from Florida's law in that it requires that an attacker have a firearm or other weapon that could be used to kill. Florida's does not.
The cases of George Zimmerman fatally shooting unarmed TrayvonMartin in Sanford, Fla., or the local bicyclist who defended himself against three unarmed teenagers on the Thun Trail, fatally shooting one, were not stand your ground cases, said Berks County District Attorney John T. Adams.
Adams said he was frustrated by media accounts and a general public perception that led to attacks on stand your ground laws.
"They were self-defense cases," Adams said. "I see no need to amend our law."
Reading Police Chief William M. Heim said he opposed the state Castle Doctrine when it was first proposed.
"I was against Pennsylvania passing such legislation because I don't feel it's needed," Heim said. "We already have self-defense in place.
"All the stand your ground law does is kind of muddy the water as to what can be claimed for self-defense in a public place and can allow criminals to skirt the law by calling on that kind of defense," Heim said.
Legislators split
Two years after Corbett signed the Castle Doctrine into law, state legislators remain polarized on the issue.
State Rep. Thomas R. Caltagirone, a Reading Democrat and minority chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said that when he was a young legislator he also served on the city's town watch.
It was the 1980s and for about a decade Caltagirone patrolled the neighborhoods around his Franklin Street home from about 7 to 10 p.m.
"We never got out of the car, never confronted anybody," he said. "We used common sense, and we never challenged anybody."
Today, that experience influences his opinion of Pennsylvania's current law.
Caltagirone believes stand your ground laws encourage violent confrontations that might otherwise be avoided by residents and handled by police.
"I think stand your ground goes a little too far," he said. "Why antagonize or bring on a situation when you could avoid it?"
On the other side of the aisle, state Rep. Mark Gillen, a Robeson Township Republican, said the stand your ground language in Pennsylvania's version on the law addresses the fact that people can't always flee an attacker in a public place.
"I try to personalize things if I can," Gillen said. "My wife and I have five children, one who is 2 months old, who have to be carried or shepherded around.
"In my mind there are clearly situations where retreat is not an option."
Legal views
Reading defense attorneys Jim Polyak and Allan L. Sodomsky, both with long experience in state and federal courts, had different takes on the issue.
"I'm a proponent of the justification defense," Polyak said. "Clearly, if the incident had happened here with the same set of facts, George Zimmerman would have been convicted. In Pennsylvania the other person has to be in possession of a firearm or dangerous weapon. You come up short in that (Trayvon) Martin didn't have a weapon.
"Our law is stricter. It's an added safeguard."
Sodomsky said he believes the state's old self-defense statute was enough to protect victims of assault.
"I'm on the side of repealing the stand your ground laws because I believe violence begets violence and the more we allow people to protect themselves the greater chance of vigilantism," Sodomsky said. "And it has nothing to do with gun control.
"I just feel whenever there is an ability to walk away, regardless of the threat, they should walk away. It's a very fine legal line. If someone punches you and you punch them back and happen to have the stronger punch then guess who is getting arrested.
"I just don't think that's the kind of society we want."
Contact Dan Kelly: 610-371-5040 or dkelly@readingeagle.com
___ (c)2013 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
