More than half the audience raised their hands when attorney Sandra Thompson asked how many people were not surprised by the recent George Zimmerman verdict.
Thompson posed the question to more than 60 people who attended the community forum held Tuesday at Crispus Attucks in York City by the York NAACP and the local Black Ministers Association.
The forum gave York County residents a chance to share their opinions about the acquittal of Zimmerman, a Sanford, Fla., neighborhood watch volunteer acquitted of in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin, a 17-year-old black male who was unarmed. 
On Feb. 26, 2012, Zimmerman followed Martin as he walked to the home of his father's girlfriend. Words were exchanged and, after a struggle, Zimmerman shot Martin in the chest and claimed self defense in accordance with Florida's stand your ground laws.
Thompson, president of the local National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said she didn't watch the trial because she already figured Zimmerman would be cleared.
"The defense did their job, but the prosecution didn't do their job," she said. "And the police department didn't do their job when Zimmerman wasn't charged immediately (after the shooting)."
The prosecution finally charged Zimmerman for the shooting six weeks later because of public outcry, Thompson said.
While there has been public outrage over the verdict, many people aren't surprised by the jury's decision because they believe the American justice system is not fair to black males and does not value their lives, Thompson said.
What to tell kids? Sam Beard, a black York City resident, said he is raising two grandsons and wondered how to explain the Zimmerman case to them. Beard also said he's afraid for them as they grow up, especially after the verdict.
"I wonder how can I explain to my boys that they're just as good and can go just as far as anyone else, but if you're stopped by police, you have to become subservient because it's a matter of life or death," Beard said.
The audience also discussed the need for groups to come together to list and resolve local racial, economic and crime issues.
Members also talked about personal experiences with racism and about working through their own prejudices and stereotypes they have based on how people dress, especially with hoodies, oversized clothing and sagging pants.
Ruth Shaffer, the Democratic Party of York County vice chairwoman, said she was a little scared when she saw two boys - they were white - walking down the street in Hanover with their pants sagging.
"I held on to my steering wheel," said Shaffer, who is also white. "But I thought, 'Lazy bums. Are you going up there to buy some drugs?' I wanted to yell, 'Pull your pants up!'"
Need for plan: Elder Eugene Brown, pastor of True Bread Community Church in York City, said parents and church, city and community leaders need to develop a strategic plan of action for dealing with injustices and with youth issues.
Men also need to get involved to guide younger males in the right direction and to help meet needs in their communities, said Brown, a BMA member.
"All males need to rise up and take charge of the community," Brown said. "We cannot remain silent."
The York Chapter of the NAACP meets at 6:30 p.m. the fourth Tuesday of each month at Crispus Attucks Community Center, 605 Duke St. in York City.
Also, the "Stand Up For Your Community" group will hold its summer meetings outside in York City. During the meetings, information will be shared about local activities designed to improve residents' quality of life.
The meetings are at 5 p.m. on:
**July 25 at the corner of West Princess and West streets
**Aug. 22, East Prospect Street and College Avenue
**Sept. 26, South Queen and South streets.
In case of rain, the meetings will be held at Lincoln Charter School, 559 W. King St.
-Reach Eyana Adah McMillan at emcmillan@yorkdispatch.com
