David Diamond is a criminal defense attorney at Diamond & Associates located in Los Angeles, California. Attorney Diamond was recently a featured guest speaker on several radio shows and on a major Television station to discuss the high profile Zimmerman murder trial involving the shooting death of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin in Sanford, Florida.  
The fatal shooting of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin took place on the eve of February 26, 2012 in a gated community in Sanford, Florida, where TrayvonMartin was staying temporarily. George Zimmerman, a 28-year-old mixed race Hispanic was the neighborhood watch coordinator for the gated community where the fatal shooting took place. After Zimmerman placed a call to police, law enforcement arrived within two minutes of the fatal shooting that took place during the scuffle. Zimmerman was taken into custody, treated for his head wounds and subsequently questioned for five hours. The police chief released Zimmerman for lack of evidence and lack of legal grounds to make an arrest and said that Zimmerman has the right to defend himself and use lethal force. However, six weeks after the shooting, Zimmerman was facing murder charges and was appointed a special prosecutor by Governor Rick Scott. The high profile and highly controversial murder trial began on June 10, 2013 in Sanford, Florida and Zimmerman was acquitted on second-degree murder and manslaughter charges by a jury on July 13, 2013. Throughout the case, attorney David Diamond was called upon as legal expert to discuss the Zimmerman case and featured on several radio shows and on Television. Los Angeles criminal defense attorney David Diamond was a guest speaker where he discussed the Zimmerman case on the Financial Survivor Network, the Amy Beth Arkawy Show, the Think Tank (AM 870/FM 105.3), Newstalk AM 1470 in Tampa Bay, and America's Radio News. David Diamond also appeared in person on Fox 11 News in Southern California where he discussed the Zimmerman verdict. David Diamond practices criminal defense in Los Angeles, California at Diamond & Associates. Attorney Diamond is a State Bar Certified Criminal Law Specialist; he was included in Southern California's selection of Rising Stars[#x2120] for 2009, 2010, and 2011; he is an Associate Adjunct Professor of Law at Southwestern School of Law in the Trial Advocacy Honors Program; and he is an Associate Professor of Criminal Justice at National University. Attorney Diamond handles a broad range of criminal matters on both the state and federal level and these include white collar crimes and serious violent felony cases. To speak with attorney Diamond directly regarding your case in a free initial consultation, please call (888) 860-6570 or visit the firm's website directly at http://www.losangeles-criminalattorney.com .
