Watching one of the many cellphone videos of the incident, we know something terrible, and terribly wrong, has happened. When a BART (Bay Area Rapid Transit) officer shot Oscar Grant in the back on Jan. 1, 2009 - while Grant was on his belly with his hands cuffed behind his back, and with the white officer kneeling on top of him - the outrage in Oakland, Calif., and beyond was understandable. It was demanded.  
When the officer was not convicted of first-degree murder, but of involuntary manslaughter (he argued that he believed he had pulled out his Taser), and when he was released from prison just 11 months later, that wound was opened again. Black people - and people of other races - must examine this type of justice and ask: What if the roles had been reversed? Would that have been the sentence if Oscar Grant were a white man? "Fruitvale Station" is a dramatization of a real event that not only examines that fateful day but also determinedly shows the man whose life story ended that day. It is also one of the best pictures you will see this year, having already won both the grand jury prize and the audience award at the Sundance Film Festival. With his first feature film, writer-director Ryan Coogler - a 27-year-old native of the East Bay area and virtually the same age as Oscar were he still alive - has created a work that is both personal and universal. The depth of characterization, as well as the evenhanded treatment of the events, make this an important film. Through the performance of Michael B. Jordan (whose quality work moves from TV's "The Wire" and "Friday Night Lights" to movies), we are given the full, unvarnished spectrum of Oscar's life in the 24 hours that is the last day of his life. We see Oscar at Farmer Joe's market in Oakland, where his girlfriend and his mother believe he is still working. On this day, he is buying crab for gumbo for the night's celebration of his mother's birthday, and we see him pleading with the manager for his job back, lost to his being chronically late for work. He stresses to his former boss how important regaining the job is, to the point of losing his temper and blurting out a disturbing combination of both cry-for-help and threat: "Do you want me selling dope?" Oscar asks in the middle of a store aisle. "Do you want me waiting for you after work?" Where there is a tendency to transform characters in these tales into saints, Coogler uses this scene and others (his mother visiting him in San Quentin one year before his death) to show that he is not perfect. He is not an angel. In both scenes, this is hammered home by Jordan, whose level of intimidating ferocity is palpable. One minute, he's gently telling his mom of his love for his 4-year-old daughter Tatiana; the next minute in the visiting area, when an inmate enemy confronts him rudely, his mother is forgotten as a furious Oscar reacts as a coiled snake, ready to strike against one who would disrespect him. This latter moment is a flashback scene, and we can't help but notice the humanizing scenes of the movie that balance against it: Oscar has a mother's love (Octavia Spencer of "The Help" provides tough love; she won't talk to Oscar when he's driving and talking at the same time); Oscar has a close bond with his whip-smart daughter and his grandmother; he clearly loves his girlfriend and wants to be a better man. He is not alone in the world, but rather he has many connections in his support system. He is deeply flawed, but we see potential in him. He is 22, and there is time for him to become a better man - or there should be. Coogler's film is slight at 85 minutes, yet it's also tight and highly watchable. Although the filmmaker's hand-held camera can intrude on the enjoyment and his foreshadowing can be a bit much (the metaphor of Oscar giving aid to a dog in the road is over-the-top), he makes up for it with so many carefully constructed scenes of quiet power. Balance against these, obviously, comes in the conclusion, when a shot rings out in a loud train station, and confusion reigns. For many, in the wake of Oscar Grant and Trayvon Martin and others gone too soon, they can only wonder when such shots will no longer echo through society. h5 class="title"'FRUITVALE STATION'/h5 Cast: Michael B. Jordan, Melonie Diaz, Octavia Spencer Theaters: Cinemark Tulsa, AMC South- roads 20, Starworld 20 Running time: 1 hour, 25 minutes Rated: R (some violence, language throughout and some drug use) Quality: i class="icon icon-star" style="color: #c09853;" i class="icon icon-star" style="color: #c09853;" i class="icon icon-star" style="color: #c09853;" i class="icon icon-star-half" style="color: #c09853;" (on a scale of zero to four stars) Michael Smith 918-581-8479 a class="ArticleLink" href="mailto:michael.smith@tulsaworld.com"michael.smith@tulsaworld.com
