There's no turning back the clock on the nation-dividing trial of George Zimmerman, the neighbourhood watch volunteer who was acquitted in the shooting death of 17-yearold Trayvon Martin, but at a minimum, the verdict should prompt a broader discussion in America over the country's stand-your-ground laws. 
The provisions are in force in more than half of U.S. states and aren't without merit: the belief that a person has the right to defend his home from attack is at the core of a just and civilized society. The problem is that the defence doesn't require those who feel threatened to act in a manner commensurate with the perceived danger, rather to use the least amount of force necessary to thwart the attack. It also doesn't demand that those who feel threatened take steps to avoid a confrontation, and far from being limited to homes, in some states, the provision has been extended to cars and even public sidewalks.
The stand-your-ground law was cited as the reason for not initially arresting Zimmerman in February 2012, when he told police in Sanford, Fla., that Martin was beating him up during their scuffle and that he feared for his life. Though stand-your-ground was never raised during the trial, Judge Debra Nelson included a provision about the law in the instructions that allowed jurors to consider it as a legitimate defence, The Associated Press reports.
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder is among those questioning stand-your-ground laws in the wake of Zimmerman's acquittal, saying they contribute to "more violence than they prevent." Indeed, a controversial Texas A&M University study claims standyour-ground has increased murders and manslaughter by eight per cent with no reduction in robberies, burglaries and aggravated assaults.
"Separate and apart from the case that has drawn the nation's attention, it's time to question laws that senselessly expand the concept of selfdefence and sow dangerous conflict in our neighbourhoods," Holder said July 16 at the convention of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. It's not that Canada itself has always struck the perfect balance when it comes to selfdefence. Joe Singleton of Taber hit a thief with the blunt end of a small hatchet in 2010 when a burglar suddenly tried to drive offafter ransacking his home, reportedly putting the resident's wife at risk. Instead of being applauded for his quick action, Singleton was charged with assault with a weapon and assault causing bodily harm, offences that carry up to 10 years in prison. Fortunately, the charges were later dropped when he completed the terms of an alternative measures program.
It was the case of Toronto shopkeeper David Chen, who chased, captured and tied up an individual who was repeatedly shoplifting from his store, that prompted the Conservatives to pass the Citizen's Arrest and Self-defence Act, which came into force in March. It allows reasonable steps to protect property and was the first redefinition of self-defence since the Criminal Code was written in 1892.
Canada has taken long overdue action to ensure citizens have the right to defend themselves in a measured manner. In the United States, legislators might want to now consider curtailing the use of deadly force for perceived threats, particularly in a nation where gun ownership is so prevalent.
