Labels and propaganda
The July 22 article in The Herald,"Fracking films reflect twists in gas drilling debate," is an excellent example of how labels and propaganda are used to manipulate the public within a dualistic conservative/progressive framework.
The writer, Kevin Begos, labels the documentarians, quotes unknown "experts" and then allows an economist, Jeff Frankel, to define fracking in a positive manner quoting security concerns and job growth. 
This dualistic narrative invokes loyalty and emotions through identification with one side or the other, as a subterfuge for a regressive practice that threatens our groundwater, land and air quality. Fracking pollutes groundwater and has been found to cause earthquakes. We do not "invest in America" through ruination of the natural resources or government-sponsored corporate greed.
We are all environmentalists. We want clean air, drinkable water and unpolluted land. Energy needs can be met by investing in sustainable practices, capabilities we have.
It is imperative that citizens stop succumbing to the use of communication ploys and greed of specific industries that care nothing about the public good.
Are we going to allow ourselves to be used, or are we going to move forward as an intelligent collective? What we choose will be our legacy.
Lynne HellerPrunedale
Neighborhood Watch offers proper training
I wonder how many U.S. residents are familiar with Neighborhood Watch programs. They are everywhere, with signs clearly posted. For at least 20 years I've been familiar with and admiring Seaside's Yellow Jackets. (This would be an opportune time for The Herald to do an updated story about them.)
Neighborhood Watch volunteers are typically parents and grandparents, young adults and older teens. They are mentored, counseled and guided by their local police. They walk in their neighborhood as a group, never alone and never armed. They follow strict but simple guidelines, including: observe, report suspicious activity, then walk away. Police will respond almost immediately.
In Sanford, Fla., George Zimmerman was guilty of more than using poor judgment. With proper training (including the value of courtesy and diplomacy), he could have announced his presence, identified himself and asked TrayvonMartin the nature of his business in the area. Instead, he chose to behave as a rogue, and ultimately decided to stalk Martin. It was Zimmerman's actions alone that created and aggravated the situation.
Perhaps blame for the preventable tragedy should be placed squarely on the Sanford Police Department.
Marilyn KirbyCarmel Valley
When in trouble, pray
I hear the question "What do I tell my son?" repeated in news interviews with black mothers, including TrayvonMartin's mother, to protect the son from trouble, and I am reminded of a TV documentary.
The documentary ran a few years ago and it was about a black man in the South. His mother told him when he was a lively young man, still a boy really, that if he ran into trouble with whites, he must pray the Lord's Prayer with everything he had. I suppose that's what the Bible calls heart, soul, mind and strength. Shortly thereafter, he and a pal of his were set upon by a lynching mob. He did what his mother told him to do, seriously, and a man in the crowd spoke up for him and they let him go. But not his friend, sorry to say.
The documentary was about him and the black history museum he later created in his hometown in the jail the mob had initially pulled him and his friend from. I believe he'd made a career as a peace officer.
Isn't that just the best?
Don't run, don't fight, don't hide   pray to God, the great help in trouble, then, now and always.
Sherna StewartMonterey
Dog park not agricultural
What exactly was the "allowed agricultural" grading work, without permits, on the proposed Canine Sports Center land for? Grazing livestock? Growing crops?
How would either of these uses figure into a dog park?
Sherri ReidCarmel Valley
Be better dog owners
I am an unabashed dog lover and one of the most passionate advocates for dogs on our public trails and anywhere the companionship of well-behaved four-legged pals can enhance the quality of our lives.
Our companions, I have concluded, are not banned from parks, trails, hotels, restaurants and other social settings because they are "bad dogs." "Bad humans" who have no sense of responsibility are to blame and will cost the rest of us the privileges we cherish.
I have seen more dog excrement on local park trails and neighborhood paths these last few weeks than ever. It's inconsiderate and disgusting and a sure way to make the dog-friendly pendulum swing back to when dogs were only tolerated in the backyard and the dog house.
Dog owners, be ambassadors and pick up after your dog and don't be timid about educating other dog owners into doing the same.
Linda MullallyCarmel
