TO STU Bykofsky: I want to commend you on your column regarding the reaction to the Zimmerman verdict. You are one of the few in the media who have the guts to point out that it is ridiculous to blame the white man for the genocide of black males that is going on in the inner cities, like our own Philadelphia.  
To see the hucksters like the Rev. Al Sharpton, Jesse Jackson, and the NAACP use the media and the race card to their benefit in this case, and not get called on it is a disgrace. I am waiting for someone in the media to ask the following question: Why are black males profiled? The media is taking political correctness to an extreme and is cowardly, in my opinion. As you point out, it is much more likely that a black man will be murdered by a black male than a white or Hispanic town-watch representative. 
If real leaders come forward and stress the family unit, fatherhood, education and honest work, they might have some hope. Unfortunately, that doesn't appear to be any time in the near future. It is time for people in that community to take responsibility instead of blaming others. 
In conclusion, if the media continues to enable the likes of Sharpton, Jesse, and the NAACP, the racial divide will become deeper and the real issue in the black community will continue in the form of dead black males. The Trayvon Martin death was a tragedy for the Martin family, but it does not indicate that the white man is the greatest danger to black males. Thank you for keeping it real. 
Ken Grolsko 
Cape May Court House, N.J. 
Sarcasm? 
Perhaps I'm the only middle-aged man who remains annoyed by new-speak, like ending statements as if they were questions. Huma Abedin used this lilt liberally in her description of why she remains by her husband, Anthony Weiner's, side. 
Perhaps, this time, she really meant her words to be what they sounded like. Sarcastic questions. 
"I love him? I believe in him? I have forgiven him?" 
Jay Lynch 
Upper St. Clair, Pa. 
Head ache 
I buy your paper daily and usually enjoy the play-on-words headlines on the front and back covers. However, I found the "Healthy as a Hearse" headline extremely insensitive and in poor taste, even though the article itself was well-written. 
Alan I. Lourie 
Villanova, Pa. 
