Back into their cars
This is so upsetting to me. After years of encouraging commuters to get out of their cars and take public transportation, the ferry system has succeeded beyond its wildest dreams. 
And while for years the district has seen ridership of the ferries grow, officials have done virtually nothing to address the parking issue that has been a product of the ferry ridership success.
Now, they have figured that charging a parking fee will help solve this problem. They have determined that with a parking fee of this magnitude, it will encourage people to find other means of getting to the ferry terminal.
What other means are they thinking about? They have eliminated all of the feeder buses that were once available to get riders to the ferry terminal.
They are now talking about introducing pilot shuttle from from downtown Fairfax to the ferry. That is all well and good, but where are the riders going to park in downtown Fairfax to take this shuttle?
And what about the many other areas that people travel from to take the ferry like Novato, Terra Linda, Peacock Gap, Corte Madera, etc.?
The obvious solution to the parking problem is a multilevel parking facility at the ferry site. This is something that should have been addressed years ago.
A parking fee of the magnitude that the bridge district is proposing, will only cause to discourage commuters from taking the ferry, not encourage them to do so. The parking fee will not solve the parking problem.
Negotiations with the Marin County Mart and the Ross Valley Sanitary District to provide additional parking is a step in the right direction.
But the correct ultimate solution is a multilevel parking facility on site. The sooner that the district gets moving on this, the better.
Joe Faimali, San Rafael
Opposed to people?
I'm reading with amazement about the proposed ridgetop subdivision in Tiburon against the recent backdrop of vociferous protests against so called high-density affordable housing of 30 units per acre.
Affordable housing for the wealthy can be up to 43 units on 110 acres.
I await with interest the vociferous protests against such low-density housing, considering the inevitable population growth and the need for more overall housing space.
Or does it just boil down to money?
Caroline McKinnon, Novato
Obama's 'hypocrisy'
President Barack Obama uses the Trayvon Martin verdict to speak about the racial injustice against black men "that doesn't go away."
He bemoans the supposed "nervous stares" and "car locks clicking when they walk down the street."
This reminds me of when the newly elected President Obama moved to Washington in 2008, and he and Michelle immediately sent their two daughters to a cushy private school   and in doing so, turned their backs with a nervous stare on the inner city, largely black, Washington D.C. public school system.
What we heard then at the White House, was a similar "click" ... of pure hypocrisy.
Chris Hunt, Ross
