Obama's latest economic push has familiar feel
WASHINGTON - If President Barack Obama's new focus on the economy sounds familiar, that's because he's done it before. 
Since the first year of his presidency, Obama has been launching - and re-launching - initiatives on the economy. Some came with new policy proposals, others with catchy slogans. Remember 2011's "Winning the Future" campaign? Or the "We Can't Wait" initiatives that followed later that year? Just a few months ago, Obama was headlining the "Middle Class Jobs and Opportunity Tour."
So far there's no slogan attached to the White House's latest initiative, which kicks off Wednesday in Galesburg, Ill. The president's advisers are billing his remarks as a major address on the economy, though no new initiatives are expected to be announced. However, aides say there will be some fresh policy proposals in a series of follow-up speeches planned through September, most of which will be narrowly targeted on issues such as housing, retirement security and expanding access to education.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said Obama's repeated attempts to orient his public agenda on the economy should serve as a reminder that "the president has always been focused on these issues."
Zimmerman helped 4 get out of overturned SUV
ORLANDO, Fla. - George Zimmerman helped rescue four people from an overturned vehicle in central Florida last week, just days after he was cleared of all charges in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin, officials said Monday.
Seminole County Sheriff's spokeswoman Kim Cannaday said in a statement that deputies responding last Wednesday afternoon to the wreck in Sanford - the Orlando suburb where Martin was shot - found Zimmerman and another man had already helped a couple and their two children out of a flipped SUV off the road near Interstate 4. They were not hurt.
Zimmerman spoke with a deputy at the scene and then left, the sheriff's office statement said. He did not see the crash happen.
This is believed to be the first time Zimmerman, 29, has been seen publicly since his acquittal on a second-degree murder charge in the 17-year-old Martin's death in February 2012. Zimmerman's parents and his attorneys have said in interviews since the verdict that they fear for his safety because of those who may not agree with it. A message left at the office of Zimmerman attorney Mark O'Mara was not immediately returned Monday.
-The Associated Press
