The death of Trayvon Martin was a tragedy. No one doubts that. But it was only one tragedy among many thousands that have been essentially ignored.
President Obama, speaking out on July 19 on the result of the Zimmerman trial, scolded us all for essentially stereotyping and profiling black men in our society. He said that he himself had been a victim of such profiling when he was younger. He told us that most African American males, himself included, have had the experience of hearing locks clicking on the doors of cars as they walk down the street.
He's right: Young black men are "profiled" every day by nearly everyone, black and white. President Obama should ask himself why that is true. The answer is there, but you really have to look for it. With rare exception, politicians and the media ignore it. It's the elephant in the room that everyone wants to pretend isn't there. 
Michael Nutter, the thoughtful and courageous black mayor of Philadelphia, is the exception. He sees the elephant very clearly. He says that in his city, 75 percent of the homicide victims are black men. About 80 percent of those arrested and convicted of those murders are also black men. A 2007 U.S. Justice Department study verifies the mayor's observation for urban areas throughout the nation. (You can find it at www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/bvvc.pdf.)
African Americans are the victims of roughly 8,000 homicides a year. At least 80 percent of those are committed by young black males.
A bit of perspective is in order. We've fought wars in Iraq and Afghanistan for 10 years. As of February 2012, a total of 6,365 Americans have died in both conflicts combined. Young black men kill more of their fellow young black men in our country, each and every year, than the total number of Americans who have died in both wars over the last 10 years. During that period of time, nearly 80,000 African Americans have been murdered.
Where is the outrage? Has the media raised a fuss over these 80,000 tragic deaths? Has Attorney General Eric Holder threatened federal investigations or criminal civil rights indictments because of any of them? Have there been mass demonstrations to mourn the loss of any of them? The answer is "no" the media, the president, the politicians and civil rights leaders with the exception of Nutter and a few others have managed to largely ignore this monumental American tragedy. No one asks on behalf of the 80,000 victims: "Why did this happen? Why does it continue to happen? Who is responsible? What can we do to stop this epidemic of needless deaths?"
As Nutter asked recently, "Why is it that African American males are so disproportionately both the victims and perpetrators of violence, more often than not against each other?"
Is this big city mayor the only man in America with the courage to confront these issues head on? On one occasion, Nutter blasted the city's absentee fathers who, he implied, were at least partly responsible for the crimes that their children committed.
We have made vast progress in race relations in America in the last 50 years, stunning progress that I have been privileged to witness. But until we have the courage to acknowledge the ongoing tragedy of black on black crime in America have a genuine, honest and far reaching conversation about it, and apply our very best efforts to remedy it future progress is doubtful indeed. If there is a more important or pressing problem for the leaders of our nation to tend to, you would be hard pressed to name it.
Nutter says, "We can change things, that I know. The question is, are we ready to do it? Are we willing to set ego aside, be vulnerable and hear things that none of us necessarily want to hear? We have to try right now, because our children are dying in the streets every day."
The verdict in the Zimmerman case, while hard for some to accept, was understandable. Standing by silently while 8,000 African Americans are murdered each year is not.
When will our leaders, black and white, state, local and federal, join hands with Nutter to look for solutions to this pressing crisis?
Richard Stacy is a former U.S attorney for the district of Wyoming who served two presidents and five attorneys general in the U.S. Department of Justice. He lives in Denver, and was a member of the 2007 Colorado Voices panel.
