Furniture company
-ticks with Deen
HIGH POINT, N.C. - The North Carolina-based home furnishings company that markets Paula Deen's furniture line is sticking with the embattled celebrity chef. 
The High Point Enterprise reports that Universal Furniture International will continue to market the Paula Deen Home Collection.
Deen has been under fire since the revelation earlier this year of a legal deposition in which Deen admitted under oath to having used the N-word. Many companies have dropped Deen since the deposition became public.
Jeff Scheffer with Universal Furniture says he feels bad for Deen. He says the Deen he knows isn't the one who has been portrayed in the media recently.
Scheffer wrote retailers saying his company accepts Deen's apologies for her previous comments.
Gun group collects
money for shooter
COLUMBUS, Ohio - An Ohio firearms group has raised more than $12,000 to buy guns or a security system for George Zimmerman, the former neighborhood watch volunteer who was recently acquitted of all charges in the fatal shooting of unarmed teen Trayvon Martin in Florida.
Ken Hanson of the Buckeye Firearms Foundation says the group sent Zimmerman a check for $12,150.37 Tuesday. He says the fundraising effort was launched because the group believes Zimmerman's gun rights are being violated.
The U.S. Department of Justice has taken all the evidence from the trial, including the gun that killed Martin, as part of a civil rights investigation.
An attorney for Zimmerman has said his client is getting threats since the verdict earlier this month and has been carrying a weapon.
Train derails, spills
ethanol at Tampa
TAMPA, Fla. - Firefighters in Florida are working with CSX Transportation officials to upright 10 toppled train cars that derailed at the Port of Tampa.
CSX spokesman Gary Sease told the Tampa Bay Times about 4,500 gallons of ethanol spilled onto the ground when the 81-car train derailed early Thursday. No one was injured.
Sease says the ethanol was contained to the immediate area.
Officials say the train was heading to the port from Chicago. The cause of the derailment was not immediately known. CSX officials are investigating.
Authorities restricted access to the port while Tampa Fire Rescue crews sprayed foam onto the spill.
Prison population
down for third year
WASHINGTON - The government says the U.S. prison population dropped for the third straight year in 2012.
The Bureau of Justice Statistics says there were more than 1.5 million prison inmates last year. That's a drop of 1.7 percent from 2011.
The prison population hit a high of more than 1.6 million inmates in 2009.
Despite the overall decline, the federal prison population actually rose by nearly 1,500 inmates last year. The state population dropped by nearly 30,000 inmates.
California is responsible for most of the decrease in the number of state inmates. That's because of a 2011 law sending non-serious, non-violent or non-sex offenders to county jails.
Nine states saw their prison populations drop by more than 1,000 - California, Texas, North Carolina, Colorado, Arkansas, New York, Florida, Virginia and Maryland.
compiled from wire reports
