Contact J. J. Goldberg at goldberg@forward.com
The Crown Heights riots  offer a model to follow.
The preamble to the U. S. Constitution   which speaks of preserving justice,  domestic tranquility, general welfare,  liberty and, not least, a sense of national unity   could read like a CliffNotes version of the  TrayvonMartin-George Zimmerman debate.  Taken together, these words suggest that the  feds have a duty to intervene. But how?
I'd argue that the most useful precedent is  the federal civil rights conviction of Lemrick  Nelson for the killing of Yankel Rosenbaum,  an Orthodox Jew, during the 1991 Crown  Heights riots. The two cases are remarkably 
similar, and we can learn  a lot about one from the  other.
At the moment, most  legal chatter centers  on the possibility of  the Justice Department  bringing federal hatecrimes  charges against  Zimmerman, under  the so-called Matthew  Shepard and James Byrd
Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009. That  would be a mistake.
The hate crimes law would require the prosecution  to prove that Zimmerman willfully  intended to cause bodily injury to Trayvon  Martin because of his race. This raises the  same problem as the state trial: We don't  know exactly what happened in the moments  before the shot was fired. Did Zimmerman  pull the trigger because Martin was black?  Or was he, at that moment, motivated by  fear and self-defense? Intent is crucial in hatecrimes  cases.
A strong case can be made that Zimmerman  was motivated by race at the beginning of  the confrontation, when he saw Martin and  decided to follow him. His phone calls to 911  show it. But was he intending at that point  to cause injury? There's no evidence of that.  And by the time he grabbed his gun, he may  simply have panicked, finding he'd gotten in  over his head.
However, a conviction probably could be  obtained under another federal statute: the  Civil Rights Act of 1964. That's the law used to  convict Lemrick Nelson in the killing of Yankel  Rosenbaum. Under its terms, Zimmerman  could be charged with the wrong that seems  most demonstrably to have been committed:  harassing TrayvonMartin because of his race.
Nelson was arrested on the night of August  19, 1991, for the stabbing of Rosenbaum, 29,  an Australian visitor staying with Lubavitch  Hasidim in Crown Heights.
It was established that Nelson was part of  a mob out to avenge the death of a 7-year-old  black child who'd been run over that  evening by a speeding Hasidic driver. When  Rosenbaum appeared there were shouts of  get the Jew. Police found Nelson hiding in  bushes near the crime scene with a bloody  knife that tested positive for Rosenbaum's  DNA. Rosenbaum identified him before he  died.
In 1992, the jury in Nelson's state murder  trial found him not guilty. After the verdict, 11  of the 12 jurors  10 blacks and two whites   went out to dinner with Nelson and his  lawyer.
The acquittal sparked widespread outrage  among New York Jews. Months of protests  followed. Rosenbaum's brother Norman,  an Australian attorney, spent much of the
next two years in New York and Washington,  pressing for a federal investigation.
In 1994, the Clinton Justice Department  charged Nelson under a portion of the 1964  Civil Rights Act that outlaws racially-motivated  hindrance of a person's legal enjoyment of  public accommodations. Included are lodgings,  restaurants and recreational facilities.  In the Nelson case, the Justice Department  expanded the list to include city streets.  Nelson was convicted in 1997 of denying  Rosenbaum the use of the streets of Brooklyn  by stabbing him, because he was Jewish.
It shouldn't be too difficult to make the case  that George Zimmerman initiated a confrontation  with TrayvonMartin with the racially  motivated intention of hindering Martin's use  of the streets of Sanford, Florida. The facts  seem pretty clear.
Whether a civil rights charge could then be  linked to Martin's death is a separate question.  Here again, the Crown Heights case is  instructive. Rosenbaum died of internal bleeding  after Kings County Hospital failed to notice  one of his stab wounds. The defense claimed  the hospital error mitigated Nelson's culpability.  But the judge ruled the error irrelevant.  Nelson was found to have initiated the  racially-motivated chain of events that led to  Rosenbaum's death.
If that precedent is followed, Zimmerman  could conceivably receive a lengthy sentence  for initiating a civil rights violation that led to  Martin's death.
But Nelson's 1997 civil rights verdict didn't  stand. An appeals court found the trial judge  had taken illegal steps to ensure a diverse  jury. When Nelson was retried in federal  court in 2003, jurors decided (defying the  judge's instruction) that the hospital rather  than Nelson was responsible for Rosenbaum's  death. Nelson was convicted on the lesser  charge of racially motivated obstruction and  given a relatively light sentence, 10 years  minus time served. He got out in 2004.
If a Zimmerman civil rights trial were to  follow the narrower precedent of the second  Nelson trial, then Zimmerman could serve  up to 10 years for depriving Martin of his  civil rights. Some might call that too lenient.  Others might say it's overly harsh for a case  of self-defense. But it seems to address the  core issue of race.
There's another lesson for today in the  Nelson case, and it's a cautionary one. For  many New York Jews, the riots, murder and  acquittal got wrapped up in a broader narrative  of rampant black anti-Semitism. Fingers  were pointed at the city's first black mayor,  David Dinkins. Conservatives accused him of  excessive leniency toward black lawbreakers  and even outright anti-Semitism.
In turn, many blacks believed the Jewish  community was exploiting the Rosenbaum  tragedy to weaken Dinkins. The furor  helped sink Dinkins' 1993 reelection bid. On  Election eve, when Republican challenger  Rudy Giuliani stepped to the microphones to  declare victory, Australian lawyer Norman  Rosenbaum was at his right shoulder.
That same dynamic may be unfolding on a  national scale in the TrayvonMartin case, with  angry blacks taking on the role of outraged  Jews and white conservatives taking the place  of indignant, defensive New York blacks.
The lesson of Crown Heights ought to be that  a criminal trial can bring closure when justice  is done in fair measure, but when it becomes  a symbolic crusade for victory over enemies,  it only deepens the bitterness.
