Support for school transfer law comes from extremists on both sides
I agree entirely with Scott Anderson's commentary "Transfer solution is a prescription for failure" (July 24). Not only will the state law and court decision on school transfers do nothing to improve the receiving schools but, as Don Senti, head of the Cooperating School Districts, has said, it is certain that the sending schools will suffer very negative consequences from the hemorrhaging of students and money.
What Mr. Anderson fails to note, however, is that the destruction of such districts as Normandy and Riverview Gardens is precisely what most supporters of the transfer policy have in mind. Other than free-riding, self-interested parents who want to see their children gain access to high schools without paying for them, the only folks supporting the state law are two groups of ideologues: far-left bleeding-heart liberals who want to see a single, unitary metropolitan-wide school system in the name of "inclusion" and "social justice," and far-right conservatives who want to torpedo the entire public school system in the name of "school choice." Politics indeed makes strange bedfellows. Shame on the extremists on both sides.
J. Martin Rochester o Clayton 
Cartoon about Republicans went too far
Coming from the educational world, I believe in academic freedom, that professors should be able to teach and write what they believe without being penalized if the trustees or administrators do not agree with them. So, although disagreeing, I have been tolerant of the Post-Dispatch's consistent bombardment of the Republicans. But the cartoon on July 22 depicting Republicans as wanting whites only in the voting booth is going too far.
It is so easy for holier-than-thou writers and cartoonists to sit at their desks and proclaim their moral platitudes, but how many of you have been in the trenches where the action is? Well, I have, and furthermore, I am a Republican and make no apologies for it. In 1953, as student body president of the University of Missouri, I appeared before a Missouri legislative committee crusading for black students to be admitted to the university. Later, as an ordained minister, I served in the Dale-Selby area of St. Paul, Minn., and then in downtown Los Angeles, where, among other things, I was responsible for integrating the largest church in the world at that time of our denomination - and suffered the consequences for it.
I know many Republicans who would be as offended as I am by this cartoon. If you really want to know the truth about what Republicans believe, I would be glad to spend a day introducing many of them to you so you could learn firsthand for yourselves what they really believe.
Any takers?
William B. Bradshaw o Chesterfield
Allowing horse slaughter plants could lead to more thefts
When Deborah Peterson laments that "horse slaughter gets all the attention" ("Crackdown on cattle-rustling pays off," July 19), I assume she is not talking about the Post-Dispatch, which has not penned one negative opinion on the subject and doesn't seem to understand the difference between the nature of horses and cattle. It is my understanding that horses are not suited for slaughter due to their skittish nature and excitability making it difficult, if not impossible, to slaughter horses humanely in large numbers.
Ms. Peterson goes on to assert that cattle-rustling is a bigger problem than slaughtering horses in Missouri. What does she think is going to happen once Missouri opens up a horse slaughter plant? Horse theft will become as big a problem as cattle-rustling, if not more so, based on experiences in years past when many horses were stolen out of pastures and barns for slaughter in return for a quick profit. The only known statistical reporting on this subject was in California, which reported a 34 percent decrease in horse thefts after horse slaughter was banned in 1998.
We should not encourage or ignore the inhumane practice of horse slaughter just because cattle-rustling is a bigger problem. These are two separate issues and should be dealt with as such.
Diann Valenti o Lemay
Keep political commentary out of Home & Away section
I am writing to express my strong opposition to allowing one of your columnists, Aisha Sultan, to use her position to voice her personal political beliefs in the Home & Away section ("What we can tell our children about the Zimmerman verdict and Trayvon Martin," July 21).
This section is supposed to be for something other than personal political views. The jury has spoken and as such is irreversible (except through appeal). Though verdicts many times are objectionable, this is one of the basic tenets of a free society.
As an honorably discharged Army veteran of more than 13 years, I swore an oath to defend the Constitution and as such for any fool to express themselves. However, I vehemently oppose reading political commentary from a very vocal minority in the garden section. If you value subscribers, please consider placing her in an appropriate department. No where in her diatribe did we read anything having to do with Home & Away or gardening.
Charles A. Pomeroy o Glen Carbon
Treatment of Trova sculptures shows lack of respect for artist
The Post-Dispatch has performed an important service for St. Louis and for the national arts community by exposing the sad situation at Laumeier Sculpture Park ("Untreasured Trovas," July 21). The front-page article revealed that several sculptures given by St. Louis artist Ernest Trova to Laumeier and the St. Louis County park system had been broken and cast aside to deteriorate and others put up for sale, which the park system had no right to do. Fortunately, the sale was stopped.
The treatment of the Trova sculptures shows a complete lack of respect for art in general and for an artist whose work was once the toast of U.S. galleries and collectors. I never came across a more unprofessional museum situation during the 50 years I worked as a reporter and visual arts critic for the Detroit News.
As a present resident of the St. Louis, I am grateful to the Post-Dispatch for airing a rotten situation.
Joy Hakanson Colby o St. Louis
End the screaming about race issues
Bill McClellan's column "Sick of white people, sick of black people" (July 22) made too much sense. And it will continue to make sense as long as we have white people screaming at McClellan on the phone and the Rev. Al Sharpton inflaming African-Americans in the streets. There will be no end to this lack of comity until, as the poet Gwendolyn Brooks once said, we are "all tea-colored."
But Joel Currier's Monday front-page article on Jevon Mallory, the Meramec bathroom assailant, was even more revealing in that it explained that Mallory, as a Ritenour middle-schooler, had held a knife to the throat of a teacher at the school. Apparently nothing came of that incident, so Mallory four years later was free to pull an encore of sorts at Meramec.
The reverse-Trayvon aspects of the Mallory story only enhance the reverse-Trayvon syndrome in the "knockout game" played out several times in recent years on South Grand Boulevard. Was racism involved in any of these incidents to a greater or lesser degree than the Zimmerman case? Apparently not because they have triggered no rallies.
Donal Mahoney o St. Louis County
