Lafayette County sheriff needs more funding
I read Sunday's article "Tested by tragedy" about how the Lafayette County Sheriff's Department is coping with the two triple homicides recently committed there.
I can see how hard Sheriff Scott Pedley and his department are working. I know it is a thankless job.
The elected officials in Lafayette County and Madison should help them with more funding. I really think they need it. 
- Dom Conforti, Beaver Dam
Braun case is test of team, fan, management character
Thank you, Brewers owner Mark Attanasio, for being the voice of calm and reason amid the hysteria surrounding Ryan Braun's suspension.
This will be a test of character for the team, the front office and the fans, but it is an opportunity to show the world what we are made of.
Sadly, it does appear that the terms "liar," "fraud" and "cheat" may apply, but it has been a revelation to discover that we are surrounded by an incredibly high number of perfect people anxious to throw stones and express their hate for those of us who aren't so perfect.
Maybe they should put the stones down long enough to look in the mirror. That includes the sanctimonious Major League Baseball leaders who have bungled the whole performance-enhancing drug thing and continue to do so as the deals with the Biogenesis bottom-feeders are approved.
Keep the faith, Brewers fans. See you at Miller Park!
- Marlene Buechel, Verona
Impact of technology remains to be seen
My new smart phone is nearly so smart that it can turn me off and function by itself. It may come to that.
I miss the Luddites, or are they still around? They used to wreak havoc on technology because it was making human workers obsolete.
We take the new technologies for granted, but it may take centuries to evaluate their impact on social relations.
And what of those who choose to drop out in the meantime?
- Richard Kovac, Stevens Point
Zimmerman was aggressor during deadly encounter
It's sad that there was no law the jury could use in the George Zimmerman trial to address the aggressiveness he displayed by getting out of his vehicle to follow Trayvon Martin when he was advised not to.
Zimmerman stalked Martin, took his life and tried to justify it by claiming self defense.
When someone is tracking you down, you've got one of two options: flight or fight. Apparently Martin's first choice was flight. Otherwise Zimmerman wouldn't have had to hunt him down.
If I'm being chased by another person and we get into an altercation, how am I the aggressor? The inconsistency of Zimmerman's stories implies that he may have been fabricating, and that he was the aggressor when confronting Martin.
Martin was just trying to protect himself from a pursuing stranger.
- Jeffrey L. Brooks, Madison
Badgers recruiting too many quarterbacks
Is recruiting for Badger football being run right or wrong? You decide.
But in bringing on board all these quarterbacks, the coaches must not realize there are other starting positions on offense.
Don't the recruited quarterbacks coming in understand that only one of them is a starter, and there will be little or no playing time for the rest of them? How can they think they will have playing time in an overstocked position?
I wonder what each recruit thinks after the spiel by the coach and the promises made.
Then the rug is basically pulled out from under him when another quarterback - who the coach must think is more qualified - is recruited.
Everyone likes a winner, but not at these personnel costs.
- Don Schoechert, Montello
Secure land for Madison bypass highway now
Hurrah for your recent editorial, "Beltline bypass needs serious look."
As a former Wisconsin Department of Transportation engineer for highways, I have long supported planning for such a new highway.
The existing Beltline needs upgrading, as is now being planned. However, the need for improved highway capacity does not end there.
A new outer highway from south of Verona, through the southern rural portion of Fitchburg, to a junction with the interstate highway east of McFarland would allow traffic the means to bypass the metropolitan area.
This would take a large number of heavy trucks, as well as other traffic with no Madison destination, off the existing Beltline.
There is already a need for this outer highway, but it is not realistic to expect it to be constructed for several years.
Then why be concerned now?
Take a good look at the development and growth in Fitchburg over the last few years.
Planning should be going on now to identify the location and land needed for the right of way.
That way the corridor can be reserved before all the rural area is consumed by development.
- Dave Strand, Fitchburg
