Shortly after 1 p.m. Monday, Michelle Nunn declared herself a Democratic candidate in the 2014 race for U.S. Senate, the very seat once held by her father.
She's to file the proper papers today. "I'm excited about it," Nunn said in an exclusive interview. "I've learned that you can't wait for somebody else to do it. Everybody has an individual role and a responsibility to contribute where they can. This seems like a way for me to contribute."
Nunn, 46, said she intends to make the nation's finances and deficit reduction a key focus of her campaign, picking up where U.S. Sen. Saxby Chambliss leaves off. Chambliss, a Republican who retires next year after serving two terms, has played a central role in the so-far unsuccessful "Gang of Eight" effort to craft a deal to reduce the $17 trillion federal debt.
Nunn is a first-time political candidate facing steep odds. Even so, her entry has been anticipated for months, and is sure to turn Georgia into a 2014 battleground state, unleashing millions of dollars in campaign contributions and super PAC expenditures. 
Republicans hold every statewide office in Georgia, but understand that the state's rapidly changing demographics ultimately threaten that hold. To Democrats, the Georgia contest represents one of only two potential Senate pick-ups in 2014. The other is Kentucky.
The race here could determine whether Democrats retain control of the chamber.
Nunn isn't the only Democratic candidate in the Senate contest. Branko Radulovacki, an Atlanta physician, has already announced. Former state Sen. Steen Miles of DeKalb County is considering a run. But Nunn, with a last name that bespeaks Georgia centrism, is the candidate most Democrats with money will bet on.
Given the stakes, Nunn's announcement was surprisingly low-key. We were alone --- save for an aide on her side and a photographer on mine --- in a booth at the Thumbs Up Diner on Marietta Street in Atlanta, around the corner from the Points of Light Foundation that Nunn founded. Points of Light is a legacy operation of President George H.W. Bush that promotes volunteerism. Nunn has built it from one employee to 130.
Four Republicans are already in the contest, pushing the conversation ever rightward. Even as she anticipated a GOP onslaught that would begin at daybreak, Nunn said she would be aiming for the middle.
"Our opportunity is to define ourselves," she said. "I'm going to talk a lot about the deficit. Neither side of the equation is really tackling that. I think people are really tired of the mudslinging and the silliness of this."
Over the next several weeks, she'll be traveling the state in a mini-van, with her two kids (ages 10 and 8) and husband in tow.
Nunn has already shown herself to be different from other white Democrats --- i.e., Roy Barnes and John Barrow --- in Georgia. In May, she attended a fundraiser featuring President Barack Obama. Last week, Nunn had a prominent role at a White House ceremony honoring her foundation --- and its sponsor, the first President Bush.
"Part of what I bring to the table, and what Georgians are eager for, is coming together. They're tired of the partisanship, tired of what feels like political infighting versus actually trying to accomplish things," Nunn said. "I've had the chance to work with President George H.W. Bush. I sat on a council on volunteerism for George W. Bush. I believe in showing respect for our presidents across party lines. I think we do a disservice when we're not willing to do that."
Nunn will come under immediate pressure to weigh in on issues of the day. She tackled a few on Monday:
On the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare: "It's difficult for small businesses. I think there are things that are not working with ACA. That's something that needs to be changed," she said. But Nunn's emphasis was on fixing health care reform, not eliminating it. She also pointed out that, by rejecting an expansion of Medicaid under the new law, Georgia was depriving 25,000 veterans of health care coverage.
On gay marriage: Nunn said she agreed with the U.S. Supreme Court decision that left the definition of marriage to the individual states. "I also believe that marriage is not only a legal construct, but a sacrament, and every religious institution has to be able to define it for themselves," she said.
But on a personal level, Nunn said she favors marriage equality.
On the George Zimmerman acquittal in the death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin: "First and foremost, it's a terrible tragedy," she said. "We lost a young man --- really, a child. We need to grapple as a society with the moral issues. When I was at church yesterday, one of our elders said this is a conversation we need to be having."
One of Nunn's issues will echo loudly of her father, Sam Nunn. Throughout his 24 years in the Senate, which immediately followed the end of the U.S. military draft, Sam Nunn worried about a shrinking sense of citizenship in America. His daughter is of the same mind.
"Stanley McChrystal (the former commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan) recently came out and said we can't let only our military men and women, 1 percent of our population, carry the burden of securing the country," Michelle Nunn said. "He's called for a million young people to commit to national service. That's not calling for federal funding. It's talking about a private-public partnership. That's one of the things I'll be talking about."
About that famous father of hers. Sam Nunn's office, like his daughter's, is only a stone throw away from the Thumbs Up Diner. The former senator, who is closing in on 75, remains active on the world stage, particularly when it comes to the issue of nuclear proliferation.
"I think you'll see him. He's in great shape. This is my campaign, but he'll be supportive in every way," his daughter said. She hinted that part of her father's job will be to keep his tongue in check.
"I remember talking to George H.W. Bush, who said it was much harder to watch his son suffer through the slings and arrows than to endure them himself," Michelle Nunn said.
And with that, Nunn left the booth to inform her Points of Lights board that she would be stepping aside "for the duration."
