Once you get over the sheer enormity of it all - the sleek but giant cherry-red stage flanked by proportionally huge screens, the sprawling band (20 strong at least, and roaring), not to mention the crater-like landmark this show filled Sunday night - you come to realize something else unusual about Justin Timberlake & Jay Z's modernist stadium spectacle: 
Nothing much happens.
That will sound crazy to any of the estimated 65,000 who turned out for this mega-party, hosted by two justly dubbed Legends of the Summer. Your co-workers who scored floor seats - and managed to get through hourlong waits at mobbed wristband check-in tents before show time - are likely still annoying the office with breathlessly overcome stories of how great it was, undoubtedly mixed with frustration over the hyper-clustered Rose Bowl experience in general. 
How could they not keep buzzing off such an astonishing parade of hits and more hits, all smoothly sequenced and impressively performed by two titans - the most godfather-like mogul in the rap game and the most multifaceted pop superstar of the past decade?
Everyone there must have come away with a special moment. My turntable is currently spinning Side 1 of JT's "20/20" opus, the biggest-selling album of the year so far, over and over, because for me there was no finer, more supremely Princely moment than the sumptuously funky "Pusher Love Girl." 
In those seven, eight minutes (so riveting it felt like three) Timberlake took complete command of the band, simmering through the first half of its seductively lurching groove while letting his remarkably powerful falsetto rise and rise. Then, after quickly bringing the house down by halting the song and gazing out at the masses with an impossibly perfect grin, he really let it all hang out on the reprise, becoming a j-j-j-j-junkie for your love jamming through a narcotic-erotic swerve, strutting to a stage-singeing stomp and wailing sweet nothings into the night sky.
Potent stuff, and it has only whetted my appetite for the fuller Timberlake arena encounters that were announced the morning after the big bash, Nov. 26 at Staples Center and Nov. 27 at Honda Center, on sale Aug. 5.
But then I peruse the set list again and remember so many other highlights. Like how the crowd, ignited from the start, went bananas in a hurry when pseudo-ominous opening piece "Holy Grail" yielded to a set-it-off run. First came Jay's "I Just Wanna Love U (Give It 2 Me)," with JT perfectly supplying Pharrell Williams' parts, then Justin's "Rock Your Body" (even more Daft Punkish than before) and straight into a snippet of the Jackson 5's "I Want You Back," followed by the smash that samples it, "Izzo (H.O.V.A.)."
Or how about "99 Problems," with JT ham-fisting its basic riff on a clear guitar before mixing in Aerosmith's "Walk This Way" squiggle, then sassing up the cop's lines in the second set of verses? 
Timberlake had a wealth of adoringly received numbers. Some were club bangers; he even brought "SexyBack," replete with Timbaland assist. Others were churning midtempo climaxes ("Cry Me a River" and "What Goes Around ... Comes Around" most explosive of all). Then there's old-school slow jam "Until the End of the World" and his growing list of Michael Jackson-worthy anthems, like "Mirrors" and the new '80s disco cut "Take Back the Night."
And what of Jay's many standout turns? 
True, he's been getting a fair amount of flak for sounding out of touch on his month-old chart-topping album "Magna Carta ... Holy Grail" - wedded bliss doesn't make for lively or even believable rap. But he was still fierce here on "Public Service Announcement," "Dirt Off Your Shoulder" and "Encore." He remains endearingly playful on "Jigga What, Jigga Who," and was even more so during his parts of "Suit & Tie." And he was inspiring on "Empire State of Mind," even with Alicia Keys missing, and "Heart of the City (Ain't No Love)," with a rest-in-peace aside for Bobby "Blue" Bland offered from JT. 
What's more, Jay stayed on pace as an infallibly sharp rhymer (even while his subject matter loses appeal) with the fresh track "Tom Ford." If he's coasting a little by rapping about Basquiats and Bugattis, well, he's earned that choice.
In all, the duo dished out 36 songs in 2 hours and still had gems left in the tank (they've done "Frontin' " and "Clique" elsewhere). Plus, toward the end of the performance, Timberlake, looking vaudeville-dapper in black and white and bowler hat, crooned "New York, New York" alone in a side-stage spotlight, as an intro to "Empire."
How can I possibly say nothing happens?
Because by current concert standards, this Legends of the Summer show is noticeably minimalist. JT and JZ - along with Kanye West, the new dark lord of toweringly empty spaces on stage - represent the new live retro-modern. They're certainly capable of indulging extra effects - Timberlake's solo tour should be radically different, seeing as his "FutureSex/LoveSounds" outing was an advanced sprawl like no other. But they tend not to go for obvious constructs and gimmicks.
There was no extended runway into the crowd here, for instance, as at virtually every event anymore. No pyrotechnics, either, unless you count a few fiery video blasts, and really no choreography, apart from a few entrance cues. Sure, Justin busts plenty of moves - popping and locking out of nowhere, sizzling James Brown-style throughout "My Love," soft-shoe-ing it amid "Suit & Tie." Yet by and large those seemed like spontaneous and instinctive reactions to what he's feeling from the music, not preplanned pivots and twists.
If anything, this Rose Bowl bonanza was more like a straight-up hip-hop show or hard-hitting classic-rock blast - in your face, all the time - than it was a thematically orchestrated presentation, as everyone from Beyonc to Bieber and Usher to Gaga offers these days. 
Yes, it was segmented. Party-launching medleys followed by individual showcases, with Timberlake getting more exposure of new material - and more time overall - than his partner. Ultimately a big finish: "Young Forever," now a cellphone-hoisting tribute to Trayvon Martin.
But it all came rushing out in a mighty barrage, one crowd-freaking moment after another, until the whole thing blurred. 
Isn't that still the best way to thrill people? Sure seemed like it Sunday. bwener@ocregister.com 
