  Joseph White and his wife, Lois, of Irvine were on their way home Sunday evening when they saw a rally near their house in the Woodbridge neighborhood. They parked their car and joined in.  
The rally to protest the verdict in the trial of George Zimmerman and racial discrimination in general brought out about 75 people. 
White, a retired psychology professor at UC Irvine, said he'd never seen such a crowd gathered to protest in his neighborhood, which he said has only a tiny proportion of African Americans like himself. 
"I'm just amazed," White said. "This shows me that there is a conscience in America that is sometimes not very visible" that is concerned with ending racism.
The rally was one of several in Orange County since the July 13 acquittal of Zimmerman, charged in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin.
Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, shot and killed Martin, an unarmed 17-year-old African American youth, in February 2012 in Florida. Zimmerman said he shot in self-defense after struggling with Martin, but a delayed arrest and the eventual verdict have triggered national protests asserting that racism and racial profiling have played a part in the case.
Although it's been more than two weeks since the verdict, those gathered Sunday said it was important to keep the case alive and the discussions of racial profiling it has sparked. As the sun set, they gathered on a corner of Culver Drive and Alton Parkway and held signs, including "No one's child is expendable!" and "No justice, no peace."
The rally was organized through Facebook by the Irvine United Congregational Church and church member Felicity Figueroa. Figueroa said she organized the event after going to a rally in Santa Ana earlier this month, also to protest the Zimmerman acquittal.
"It made me feel that going to one rally wasn't really going to do anything. ... (People) would just move on to the next news item, and that's not going to solve anything." 
Instead, Figueroa said, she hopes the Sunday rally will encourage church members to take a role in ending racial profiling and keep the issue alive for the public.
The church calls itself "radically inclusive" and participates in food drives, AIDS walks, peace vigils and other events as part of its social justice component, Figueroa said.
"What we're doing right now is to spread the word and show solidarity with those around us. ... We are all the Martin family," said Paul Tellstrm, the senior pastor of the church. 
"By doing these vigils ... we bring to the conscience of people that we have a long way to go before we can eradicate racism or prejudice of any kind." aboessenkool@ocregister.com 
