Prosecutor: Manning sought spotlight
A military prosecutor spent hours Thursday depicting Army Pfc. Bradley Manning as a methodical, attention-seeking traitor who used advanced computer skills to dredge up hundreds of thousands of secret documents sought by the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks.
In closing arguments in a landmark trial that has revealed details about the largest breach of U.S. classified information in history, Maj. Ashden Fein sought to convince an Army judge that Manning's actions were not those of a perturbed, malleable soldier. The attorney displayed a photo of a radiant Manning, smiling as he took a photo of himself in a mirror. 
"This is not a picture of a troubled person conflicted by his actions," Fein said, speaking behind a wooden lectern in a small courtroom at Fort Meade. "This is a picture of someone who thinks he was finally becoming famous."
Fein said the private's specialized training as an intelligence analyst made him fully cognizant of how damaging unloading troves of classified information could be for U.S. national security.
Manning, 25, is accused of aiding the enemy and 20 other charges. When he pleaded guilty this year to less serious offenses, he said he was motivated by a desire to expose troubling conduct by the U.S. government, from his vantage point as an intelligence analyst deployed in Iraq in 2009 and 2010.Testimony: Bulger demanded cash at gunpoint
BOSTON -- When real estate developer Richard Buccheri agreed to meet James "Whitey" Bulger in the mid-1980s, he had no idea what the notorious Boston mobster wanted from him. But it became frighteningly clear moments after the two sat down in a screened-in cabana.
"He slammed the table. Then he takes a shotgun that was on the table and sticks it in my mouth," Buccheri said, his voice trembling. "He said he wanted 200 he meant $200,000."
Buccheri's testimony on Thursday, during the seventh week of Bulger's murder and racketeering trial, was the latest of many accounts of violence and extortion by people who dealt with the longtime leader of Boston's Winter Hill crime gang. Prosecutors are expected to finish making their case as soon as Friday.
The 83-year-old Bulger, Boston's most feared crime boss during the 1970s and '80s, has been charged in connection with 19 murders.Family rescued by Zimmerman fears link
MIAMI -- The family rescued from a car accident by George Zimmerman, days after he was cleared of wrongdoing in the fatal shooting of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin, canceled plans to thank him publicly because they fear being linked to someone reviled by many Americans, Zimmerman's lawyer said on Wednesday.
"The family, who really wanted to thank George for doing what he did publicly  realized that in any way connecting yourself with George Zimmerman is right now very toxic," Mark O'Mara, Zimmerman's lead attorney, told CNN.
Zimmerman helped pluck two children and their parents to safety from a Ford Explorer sport utility vehicle on Wednesday last week after it overturned in an accident on a central Florida highway, authorities said.
The incident occurred barely four days after Zimmerman, 29, was acquitted by a Florida jury of murder and manslaughter in the killing of Martin, who he claims to have shot in self-defense.Navy to recover bombs from Great Barrier Reef
SYDNEY -- The U.S. Navy said on Friday it would lead the effort to recover four unarmed bombs it was forced to drop in Australia's World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef marine park.
The U.S. 7th Fleet would take the lead in recovering the bombs, coordinating with Australian authorities to ensure "the environment is protected with the greatest care," it said in a statement.
"We are fully committed to redressing any potential adverse environmental impact in a timely manner," the Navy said, adding it would announce more detailed plans as they were finalised.
U.S. Navy Harrier fighter jets were forced to drop the bombs, two inert and two carrying explosives but not armed, after civilian boats were spotted near their original target during a biennial joint exercise with the Australian Defence Force.
from wire service reports
