Are you tired of all the TrayvonMartin-George Zimmerman talk?
Maybe we have not done enough to turn all that talk into something positive. Race often is a difficult, emotional subject.
But we can never make progress unless we do a better job of listening to each other, seeking empathy.
That is where a group of thoughtful readers comes in. We asked members of our Email Interactive Group to search for positives that can come out of this national case. 
Active listening takes effort. But it's a key to understanding.
LISTEN BETTER
I think in all matters of change or adaptation, be it big or small, job or marriage or culture or trying to grow up or let a child grow up, ongoing talk without rancor or hatred is the most important step.
As long as we can keep talking, communicating and listening, there is the possibility that we can move forward.
But we do have to do it without getting furious or outraged, and we do have to listen to the other side.
Julie Mason, Jacksonville
NEWS MEDIA SHOULD LOOK INWARD
Maybe the positive steps forward should be fair and accurate media coverage. We saw the picture of TrayvonMartin as he was at age 12, not the age he was at the time of the shooting. Why? Might he have looked a little more intimidating? Might it have appeared that George Zimmerman could actually have felt his life threatened? Who knows?
The jury was not fooled by the attempted manipulation, but the outcry for shooting a "child" shows many more were. This does not mean I approve of what Zimmerman did.
Shooting anyone should be the absolute last option available, but the media perpetuated and inflamed the already shaky emotional response to the situation.
How about a news media that presents the facts, not one that pushes the popular agenda? That would be a positive forward step.
Angela Siragusa, St. Augustine
SET ASIDE EMOTIONS
As an aftermath of the TrayvonMartin-George Zimmerman controversy, it is critical for all segments of society to conduct an open dialogue across racial and economic lines without bias or recriminations.
We must stop pretending that racial bias does not exist today and start talking about how we can best deal with it in our neighborhoods, at our churches, at our schools, club meetings and social events.
As an elderly white woman I cannot walk in the shoes of a black man, but I must evaluate how I respond and react to those who think and feel differently than I do and participate in civil discourse, be compassionate and free of conflict or confrontation. Only then can anything be accomplished.
President Barack Obama recounted his past experiences as a black man in our society before becoming a U.S. senator. His statements proved to be enlightening to some of my colleagues and associates. He was certainly correct when he said our young people are better than we are.
Many prominent black men and women have discussed how they prepare their sons to act appropriately in public when stopped by law enforcement officials.
Perhaps this controversy is the opportunity for a teachable moment for us to follow our young dreamers in Tallahassee, to take a good hard look at the laws that need to be changed and how our law enforcement agencies are enforcing them.
There is still time for us to learn how to correct some of these injustices by opening our ears, our minds and our hearts.
Annette Cappella, Elkton
AVOIDING TRAGEDY
Whatever you think happened the night that TrayvonMartin died, there is no doubt that this was a tragedy that could have been avoided. If you find yourself in a dangerous situation like this, do not let testosterone rule the day. Find a way to de-escalate the situation so that everyone goes home to their loved ones.
Curtis Wolf, Jacksonville
HOW MEN ARE VIEWED
The Martin-Zimmerman tragedy can yield positive outcomes if it leads us to change the way men are portrayed in our media, change the way we relate to our neighbors and change our expectations for ourselves.
First, men are often portrayed in commercials and TV shows as dumb, clueless creatures with no self direction or ambition. If this is the expectation we send, the attitude will filter out into the mainstream consciousness and be adopted as an unconscious template for acting in those situations.
What happened to TV shows that portrayed men as responsible, wise, hard-working family leaders? I hope that we can extend to the every day men in our society the same dignity and respect that women have demanded for the last century.
Second, I hope this tragedy leads us to treat our neighbors with the tangible respect, caring and kindness the Bible envisioned when Jesus commanded us to "love our neighbor."
Third, I hope the tragedy leads us to expect more from ourselves, to pursue the best and highest purpose for our lives, to do the best we can with the skills and strengths God gives us.
This aim would be in stark contrast to being ruled by the emotion of the moment and satisfying our most base desires in the most immediate way possible.
Sheila M. Saffold, Jacksonville
WALK IN THEIR SHOES
People who have not lived in the flesh of a person of different ethnicity cannot know what events have been leveled upon that person. Until all of us are willing to face the facts, there will always be a simmering problem.
Let's truly turn this into a positive by attempting to find out what a person of a different ethnicity experiences. Let's learn to work and live together without prejudice.
Nadine Kohn, Jacksonville
