Will the real Bill Thompson please stand up? The mayoral candidate who in May saw an "overreaction to stop and frisk" now says the NYPD's strategy is driven by the same suspicion George Zimmerman harbored toward TrayvonMartin.
Appearing before an African-American congregation Sunday, Thompson leveled a unwarranted, counterproductive accusation against the department that was all the more disturbing because of how it clashed with his past postures. 
The lone black contender in the race, Thompson responded to the not guilty verdict rendered against Zimmerman, the neighborhood watch volunteer who trailed the innocent, unarmed 17-year-old Martin and shot him to death during a struggle, by tweeting on July 13: "TrayvonMartin was killed because he was black. There was no justice done today in Florida."
On Sunday, in an address at Brooklyn's Abundant Life Church, he made the leap from Zimmerman's motivations to the NYPD's program of stopping, questioning and sometimes frisking people suspected of criminality. Thompson said:
"Here in New York City, we have institutionalized Mr. Zimmerman's suspicion with a policy that all but requires our police officers to treat young black and Latino men with suspicion, to stop them and frisk them because of the color of their skin."
He added that, in his view, NYPD officers had "profiled as Trayvon was profiled" large numbers of the minority group members who were stopped and let go without summons or arrest.
Contrast this to a May 29 front-page New York Times profile calling Thompson "steadfastly unwilling to join the tear-it-down chorus" on stop-and-frisk. The Times characterized Thompson as saying that campaign jousting had "glossed over its usefulness as a police tool, even as he forcefully criticized its excesses over the past few years."
The report continued: "His criminal justice platform, he said, 'isn't about running for mayor; it's about governing.'"
This was the same careful Bill Thompson who visited The Daily News editorial board on July 26. He was asked then: "What's the racial motivation, if there is one, behind stop and frisk?"
Thompson answered: "If 90% of the people who are stopped and frisked are black and Hispanic, then there is a racial component to it. . . . Black and Hispanic communities feel like they're being targeted, that they're being targeted for the excessive use of stop-and-frisk."
Referring to Controller John Liu, the News asked: "One of your rivals... uses the words 'racial profiling' . . . Is that a factor in all this?"
"Do communities feel profiled? Yes . . . But also, at the same point, used correctly, it's a useful police tool. I don't care what my rivals have said."
Note the emphasis: Though communities feel profiled, Thompson would not then pin the NYPD with profiling intent.
New Bill Thompson uses the term without hesitation. Why? A likely answer: Thompson is drawing 22% support among African-American Democratic likely primary voters, according to the latest Quinnipiac poll. That's a couple of points behind sexting liar Anthony Weiner and about tied with Council Speaker Christine Quinn.
With blacks so evenly divided, Quinn topped the pack with 27% of the support among all voters, while Thompson (20%) and Public Advocate Bill de Blasio (21%) were essentially tied in the critical competition for second place - and a spot in a runoff primary.
Based on Thompson's clearly shifting and heating rhetoric, the distressing conclusion is that he is saying what he thinks he must in order to, at least, stay in the hunt.
