As a Democratic state senator in 2005, Nan Rich joined in a unanimous vote to create Florida's "stand your ground" self-defense law.
As a candidate for governor eight years later, Rich is trying to capitalize on Democratic outrage over the law.
"The stand your ground law is broken. Until it's fixed, justice will never be fully served in Florida courts," Rich wrote in a recent appeal for campaign contributions. "As governor, I would immediately call the Legislature back into session and hold them there until they closed the loopholes in this law that allow criminals to get away with murder."
Rich, who also plans to attend a sit-in protest against the law in Tallahassee on Saturday, said there's nothing inconsistent about her stance. She said the law is being implemented in ways she and her colleagues did not intend and it's common for legislators to revisit laws they have made.
The law has become an emotional rallying point for Democrats and their allies in the wake of the 2012 shooting death of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin. As a political issue, it has the potential to drive minority voters to the polls in 2014 to register their dissatisfaction with Republican Gov. Rick Scott, who supports the law and has rejected calls to convene a special session to change it. 
Conversations with Rich and other Democrats who supported the law in 2005 show a range of views, some of which might not fit neatly onto a placard at a sit-in.
Rich's fundraising email came less than a week after a jury found George Zimmerman not guilty in Martin's death. Although her pitch for campaign money seems timed to cash in on fresh anger over the verdict, Rich said in an interview that she doesn't believe stand your ground was crucial in the Zimmerman case.
"From what I've read, I don't think that stand your ground was determinant in terms of the jury verdict," Rich said. "In the (jury) instructions, stand your ground was mentioned, but I believe it was based on the self-defense laws that are part of our statutes and they couldn't prove the charge. ... That doesn't change the fact that stand your ground needs to be changed, even though I don't believe that that's what the verdict was based upon."
Aronberg: Fix law
Palm Beach County State Attorney Dave Aronberg, who voted for the law as a Democratic state senator in 2005, continues to support the overall intent of the law but says some aspects of it should be "fixed." He, too, said he doesn't believe stand your ground was a significant factor in the Zimmerman case.
U.S. Rep. Frederica Wilson, D-Miami, also voted for stand your ground as a state senator in 2005 but has since introduced a bill in Congress to withhold federal transportation money from the approximately two dozen states that have such laws. Wilson was not available this week to discuss her changed position.
Rod Smith, a former prosecutor and Democratic state senator who was later the chairman of the Florida Democratic Party, said he'd support smoothing out some procedural aspects of the stand your ground law, but not its substance.
"People say to me, 'Would you vote the same way?' I would," said Smith. He said the law, which he helped write, removed an unfair burden on a victim to retreat when facing an attack.
Senate unanimous
Florida legislators in 2005 voted 39-0 in the Senate and 94-20 in the House to expand the definition of the justifiable use of force in state statutes.
The "castle doctrine" permitted deadly force against someone unlawfully and forcibly entering a person's home or vehicle, but the 2005 revision says "a person who is not engaged in unlawful activity and who is attacked in any other place where he or she has a right to be has no duty to retreat and has the right to stand his or her ground and meet force with force, including deadly force if he or she reasonably believes it is necessary to do so to prevent death or great bodily harm to himself or herself or another or to prevent the commission of a forcible felony."
Language was added to two other sections of the justifiable force statutes to specify that a person "does not have a duty to retreat" if he or she reasonably believes deadly force is necessary to prevent death or great bodily harm.
"The intent of the legislation was to make sure that people had a right to protect themselves without having to retreat in the face of a life-or-death situation," Aronberg said.
Aronberg said legislators should revisit at least two portions of the law in response to court rulings.
The 2005 law says a person using justified force is immune from criminal prosecution, including being arrested and detained in custody. That provision was intended to apply only when there was no dispute over the facts of a case, Aronberg contends. If facts are in dispute, Aronberg said, legislators envisioned a stand your ground claim being argued as part of the defense during a trial.
Ruling in 2010
But the Florida Supreme Court ruled in 2010 that when facts surrounding a stand your ground claim are in dispute, a defendant claiming immunity is entitled to a pretrial hearing to resolve factual questions and potentially prevent a case from going to trial.
"I don't believe it was the Legislature's intent to create a pretrial immunity based on a preponderance of the evidence," Aronberg said.
Aronberg also said lawmakers should clear up ambiguity created by a recent appellate court decision that allowed a felon in illegal possession of a gun to make a stand your ground claim. While a key portion of the stand your ground law specifies that it applies to a person "not engaged in an unlawful activity," the appeals court noted that other sections of the justifiable force statutes do not include that limitation.
The appellate ruling goes beyond the intent of legislators, said Aronberg. He pointed to language in the preamble to the 2005 legislation that says the Legislature "finds that it is proper for law-abiding people to protect themselves. ..."
Neither of those changes would apply to the Zimmerman case.
"Stand your ground did not decide this case," Aronberg said.
'Tremendous effect'
Senate Minority Leader Chris Smith, D-Fort Lauderdale, disagreed with Aronberg's interpretation. "It's in the jury instructions. ... It had a tremendous effect," said Smith, who voted against the law as a House member in 2005 and has led recent efforts to get the law changed. Even considering the law's "tremendous" impact, Smith said, it's not clear that a jury would have convicted Zimmerman under the pre-2005 self-defense laws.
Smith said he wants to eliminate the section of the law granting immunity from detention and arrest if a shooting is deemed justified. That provision prevented police from arresting Zimmerman just after the shooting, Smith said.
"I would like to give more of an option to law enforcement if there are questionable circumstances," Smith said. He also wants to change a portion of the justifiable force statutes that he said gives too much leeway to an aggressor in a fight.
"By making changes, we send a message to Floridians about a code of conduct," Smith said. Even if the changes don't win approval, Smith said, debating them would have a benefit. "Having hearings and discussing it will at least send a message to every other vigilante that that type of behavior is not encouraged."
gbennett@pbpost.com Twitter: @gbennettpost
