TEARING down the highway to New York City, we took an exit looking for a cheap motel. Instead, we found ourselves driving along North St, Greenwich, one of the wealthiest streets in the wealthiest town in the wealthiest country in the world.
There were definitely no rooms for rent in these mega mansions. We had managed to stumble into one of the most obscenely wealthy areas per capita in the world. 
Or, as one local real estate agent put it: ``Known as The Gateway to New England, Greenwich provides entry into an exclusive club of prosperity for those fortunate enough to live within its borders.''
There were no footpaths, only beech tree-lined streets with neatly trimmed verges, thick-stone walling and automatic gates. But the walls were not so high as to obscure a view of some of the most opulent houses I had seen in my life. Any one of them could rank as the best house in Australia.
If you've got a cool $US10 million you could secure an entry-level home in the region with six bedrooms and seven bathrooms set on nearly 5ha. One such property currently on the market promised: ``Enthralling two-storey entrance foyer, with inlaid limestone and wood flooring with sweeping circular staircase. Ballroom-sized sunken living room with beautiful coffered ceiling, limestone fireplace and French doors to the veranda.''
Sure, the Aussie dollar is good, but it's not that good.
This was Greenwich, in the state of Connecticut, about half an hour's drive to the north of New York and home to America's finance overlords, it's old wealth and its richest celebrities.
It's a place abundant in French doors, sweeping driveways, marble fireplaces, 3000-bottle wine cellars and dangling chandeliers.
In 2010, actor Mel Gibson sold his Tudor-style Greenwich home ``The Mill'' -- which he had shared with his wife Robyn -- for $24 million. It was listed again last year for $33 million. This was the American dream. On steroids.
Frankly, it was obscene. One of the things I've always admired about Americans is their ability to dream big. Their spirit of optimism, confidence and entrepreneurship is unique in the world. And it couldn't be any further from our Aussie spirit which tears down tall poppies and generally takes harshly to anyone seen to big-note themselves.
Americans dreams big. And they fall hard. The US economy has been in, or at the edge of, recession since its housing and credit boom burst in 2008, causing the global financial crisis. American families have watched their real incomes go backwards. Unemployment remains near 8 per cent. While on holiday there, we heard that the mayor of Detroit had declared that city bankrupt, its debts so high they will never be repaid. The city's population has shrunk by a quarter since the car industry began to close its doors.
But by far the biggest news story in America while we were there was the trial and acquittal of a man charged with racially profiling and shooting dead young black man Trayvon Martin in Florida. We watched on TV as President Obama gave a heartfelt press conference and called for calm, while sorrowfully admitting, as a black man, it could just have easily been him a few decades ago.
Another American president, in another time, declared ``all men are created equal''. In principle, that is true. But in practice, America has a long way to go.
Surveys of income mobility reveal that for all the rhetoric of being a ``land of opportunity'', America's poor have less chance of becoming rich than Australia's poor.
A 2007 study by economist and federal Labor MP, Andrew Leigh, found the income of Australian sons is less determined by their father's pay packet than American sons.
Not only is Australia home to less extremes of wealth and poverty, it is also easier for Australians to move between the two extremes. Australia has managed to achieve that despite our high influx of migration. In America, around one in 10 Americans were born oversees. In Australia, it's one in four. We have managed to absorb great waves of immigration and come out the stronger for it.
It's harder to look at a person in the street in Australia and know, just by their ethnicity or the colour of their skin, how rich they are. According to the study by Leigh, it is this difference in the income mobility of immigrants in Australia that makes us so much more mobile than Americans.
Of course, we've got our own obscenely rich people, too. But there are less of them. Australia's most expensive home can be found in the suburb of Mosman Park by the Swan River in Perth, bought by the mining magnate Chris Ellison for $57.5 million in 2009. But, with respect to the citizens of Wolseley Rd, they've got nothing on Greenwich.
That's how I like it. I'm proud to live in a country where the circumstances of your birth are less likely to determine the circumstances of your life. We're not perfect in Australia. But I wouldn't want to live anywhere else in the world.
