More than a week after the verdict, a member of the jury that acquitted George Zimmerman in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin - the first juror to show her face publicly - said she anguished over her not-guilty vote and that ultimately, Zimmerman "got away with murder." 
The only minority in the all-female jury, the juror known as B-29 said she struggled to balance the law against her heart, in her first public comments made in an exclusive interview with ABC airing Thursday and today. Though she followed the law and stands by her decision, she said feels she owes the parents of the Miami Gardens teenager an apology.
"You can't put the man in jail even though in our hearts we felt he was guilty," said the woman, using only her first name, "Maddy."
Maddy is the second juror to come forward, the first with her face shown, offering insight into how Zimmerman's fate was decided. He was acquitted July 13 after a five-week trial that provided the framework for a national discussion about race, profiling, self-defense laws and gun control. Zimmerman, a neighborhood watchman, fatally shot Martin in the chest during a violent struggle 17 months ago in a Sanford townhouse complex.
After almost three weeks of testimony, the jury - five whites, one Latina - deliberated for about 16 hours over two days. The jury was initially split: three for not guilty; two for manslaughter and Maddy, who first voted for second-degree murder, which carried the possibility of a life sentence.
By the second day, she realized there wasn't enough evidence to convict Zimmerman of murder or manslaughter under Florida laws - laws that she, like the other juror who went public, found confusing.
"I was the juror that was going to give them the hung jury. I fought to the end," she told Good Morning America anchor Robin Roberts, later adding, "George Zimmerman got away with murder, but you can't get away from God."
Martin family attorney Ben Crump said Martin's parents, Tracy Martin and Sybrina Fulton, were aware of Maddy's comments and would likely issue a public statement today.
