Hints of Mandela style seen in Obama approach
US PRESIDENT Barack Obama often cites Nelson Mandela for inspiring his own political career and whose approach to leadership he most admires and seeks to emulate, admiration he reiterated in his birthday greetings to Mandela last week.
Hints of the Mandela style were evident throughout Obama's dramatic press briefing the next day, when he spoke about the trial of George Zimmerman for the killing in Florida of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teenager. Obama highlighted lingering racial divisions and fears that have plagued the US since its founding, while suggesting ways for finally dealing with them.
Historians may someday see this as a high point of Obama's presidency, but it is surely not as critical to national survival as Mandela's response to the 1993 killing of Chris Hani. Both leaders, however, deftly challenged racial stereotypes: Mandela by pointing out it was an Afrikaner woman who alerted police to the white perpetrator; Obama by asking if Martin was of age and armed, would he be entitled under Florida law to shoot the stalker, Zimmerman, in self-defence? Both leaders act in the belief that no one is above the law and, however unjust the result of a particular case, due process must prevail.
The complex and sometimes deadly issues of racial profiling, aggressive discrimination in policing and punishment, and the social alienation and economic marginalisation of young black men, was not as pressing a problem for Mandela as it is for Obama and presidents Thabo Mbeki and Jacob Zuma. Despite the obvious differences between members of a disadvantaged racial majority in SA and a minority in the US, there are similarities in the challenges facing young black men. US journalist Charlayne Hunter-Gault last week recalled how, in 1961, a friend once helped Mandela avoid a fate similar to Martin's, saying that what happened in Florida is more typical of the plight of young black men in today's SA.
Obama personalised the problem by pointing out he looked liked Martin 35 years ago and, although not a victim of violence, he recalls enduring acts of racial profiling and indications of indiscriminate white fears that hurt him - these are still familiar in predominantly white suburbs of SA. When he later quoted Martin Luther King's call for judging people by the content of their character rather than the colour of their skin, however, this was also an implicit reminder that Obama, like the next generation of SA's leaders, is a & born-free& The challenges he is addressing have deep historical roots, as do those facing SA's leaders, but they also require different approaches than confronting the historical legal barriers of Jim Crow segregation and apartheid.
Obama attempted to provide a framework for addressing present challenges, which might resonate with present and future leaders in SA.
Constitutional issues are no longer at stake in either country and Obama rightly focuses first on implementation at the state (provincial) and local levels. The scale of the need and lack of institutional capacity for improving security and the economic and social prospects of unemployed, unskilled young black men appear greater in SA, but the politics, resolve and financial constraints are also different and could allow for more innovation and, perhaps, success.
Both countries have too many guns and suffer rampant black-on-black violence. The ideological commitment to bear arms among the majority in the US is dissimilar to SA and, so far, Obama's attempts to reduce this danger have been thwarted. This is a struggle where the two countries could learn much from each other's experiences and experiments.
Obama is right to regard big national conversations as unproductive and instead calls for grass-roots efforts to build local support for local solutions, with the engagement of churches, civic groups, businesses and community authorities. This is not just glib talk but an acknowledgement of the importance of individual agency, rights and obligations. Here, too, Obama and Mandela are philosophically similar, although the younger man is much more attuned to the political tools of modern information and communication technology. Experiments in one community can be shared and tested in others more rapidly and effectively than ever before and the expenditure of promised public funds can be better monitored, provided leaders agree to greater transparency and accountability.
& 8226;Stremlau is vice-president in charge of peace programmes at the Carter Centre in Atlanta.
