My friends are constantly extolling the virtues of social media to   me. Yet, at times I think I'm better off still trying to further   master the ins and outs of email and the cellphone.  
    Pro athletes might be wise to do the same. Too many of them have   gotten into trouble for their Twitter and Facebook postings. 
    Cases in point: Victor Cruz and the Pouncey brothers. 
    Cruz has been an inspiration to a lot of football fans with his   story. Raised in a tough section of Paterson, he was an undrafted   free agent from Massachusetts who made the Giants and became a fan   favorite with his production, his salsa dance celebrating   touchdowns and his tribute to a young victim of the Newtown   massacre. 
    But on the night George Zimmerman was found not guilty in the   Trayvon Martin case, Cruz tweeted: "Zimmerman doesn't last a year   before the hood catches up with him." 
    As quickly as he can score a TD, Cruz took down the tweet. 
    "I believe conversation not confrontation leads to change and   progress," Cruz wrote in an apology to his followers. 
    You can bet Cruz's advisors convinced him that such tweets would   lead to his off-the-field commercial opportunities drying up faster   than a California lake during a drought. 
    The Pouncey brothers are another story. Shortly after Patriots   tight end Aaron Hernandez, their college teammate at Florida, was   arrested for suspicion of murder, they posted a picture of them   both wearing "Free Hernandez" hats. 
    Maurkice Pouncey, a center for the Steelers, quickly apologized,   but Mike, a center for the Dolphins, did not. 
    But Mike wisely said, "We get paid a lot of money to act a certain   way, and that's the way we should be acting." 
    That's the crux of the situation. Teams pay millions for these   players to perform, not to use social media to expound on their   feelings. Sure, they're entitled to their opinions about George   Zimmerman or Aaron Hernandez. But they might want to keep them to   themselves. Everybody -- from the players to the fan base -- would   be better off for it. 
    * Somebody needs to tell Ike Davis the Mets aren't paying him $3   million a year to bunt. Hit the ball over the fence, Ike. 
    * Golf needs more characters like Miguel Angel Jimenez, the   49-year-old Spaniard who was leading the British Open after 36   holes. Somebody with a pony tail who smokes Cuban cigars and drinks   fine wine on the practice tee is more appealing than a  foul-mouthed  Tiger Woods. 
