July 23--Hello, Tuesday...
Weather: It just won't stop. The rain continues again today, with a 50 percent chance of thunderstorms and a high near 86. Tonight's low will fall to the lower 70s with a 40 percent chance of storms. Wednesday will be a copy of today. 
At long last -- pavement. The residents of Liberty Crossing subdivision in Kimberly finally got their streets paved, ending a long-running dispute with residents and the Kimberly City Council on one side and developer Clint Singletary on the other. The city had imposed an end-of-summer deadline on Singletary before it cashed in the performance bond on the project.
It's a boy, and a future king. Prince William and wife Kate Middleton, the Duchess of Cambridge, are now the parents of a bouncing baby boy weighing 8 pounds, 6 ounces. The baby was born Monday at 4:24 p.m. local time (10:24 a.m. our time). No name has been announced yet for the boy, who will be third in line for the British throne.
Zimmerman is back. But this time, the Florida man is credited with helping save a family of four trapped in an SUV that had rolled over on Interstate 4 near Sanford, Fla. Zimmerman, who was acquitted days ago of second-degree murder charges in the death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin, had been in hiding since the verdict was handed down.
Sports: Braun gone. Major League Baseball has suspended Milwaukee's Ryan Braun for the rest of the season, for what was called "violations of the Basic Agreement and its Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment Program." Braun was implicated in using performance-enhancing drugs associated with the company Biogenesis, which has ties to several other MLB players who are expected to face long suspensions over the next few days. Among them: New York Yankees star Alex Rodriguez... Meanwhile, Jason Heyward was the star for the Braves, as his laid-out diving catch in center field with two outs in the bottom of the ninth clinched the 2-1 win over the Mets. Atlanta scored twice in the top of the ninth for the comeback win.
___ (c)2013 The North Jefferson News (Gardendale, Ala.) Visit The North Jefferson News (Gardendale, Ala.) at www.njeffersonnews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
