andy.marso@cjonline.com
Rep. Richard Carlson, R-St. Marys, brought a new self-defense bill to the Legislature in 2006 meant to clarify residents' rights to take potentially deadly action when they feel threatened.
The bill was modeled after a law passed in Florida the year before and was passed along to Carlson by the National Rifle Association.
"I'm a firm believer in the right of self-defense, and Kansas didn't have any statutes on self-defense other than a basic common law 'Castle Doctrine' about defending yourself and your home," Carlson said Tuesday when recalling his role. 
The bill, and others like it, would later become known nationally as "Stand Your Ground," alluding to a line lifted from it.
Sen. Tom Hawk, D-Manhattan, who was then in the House, said he had some apprehensions about the bill, but remembered it passing fairly easily.
"To my recollection there was not a thorough discussion of the downside," Hawk said Tuesday. "Most of the discussion that was presented was more the points made for it. (Specifically) that people that were in a difficult situation defending their property were not able to do that."
In the years since, similar "Stand Your Ground" laws have passed in more than 20 states, spread by the NRA and the American Legislative Exchange Council, which adopted much of the Florida law's language in a piece of model legislation called the "Castle Doctrine Act."
Such laws have become the target of renewed scrutiny following the acquittal of Florida neighborhood watchman George Zimmerman in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin.
Advocates for changing the Kansas law concede that such efforts are unlikely to succeed in a state in which the conservative Legislature passed basically everything on the NRA's agenda this past session.
But Rep. Gail Finney, D-Wichita, said she feels compelled to try because the current law "has so many loopholes" that defendants could take advantage of in cases in which self-defense is murky.
"It needs to be looked at and reviewed very closely," Finney said.
It wouldn't be the first time the Legislature has revisited the 2006 law.
Like the Florida law, the Kansas law states that residents have no duty to attempt to retreat when they believe their health or their property is threatened, and instead are justified in meeting force with force.
But the Kansas law as originally written differed from the Florida law in a few key ways, according to an article published in the 2008 KU Law Review.
It didn't include a "reasonableness requirement" when evaluating the threat to the residents standing their ground. It also didn't provide guidance on when the use of "deadly force" was justified by people standing their ground.
The article's author, Annie Wells, called the Kansas law "unclear and ambiguous" and said it was difficult to predict its effects. Wells wrote that the law didn't clearly define what sort of "attack" would justify use of force in response, noting that the dictionary definition of the word includes verbal barrages.
She also said the law provided little guidance on whether the force used to defend oneself had to be proportionate to the threat.
"For example, if someone is punched in the face, can he respond by attacking with a gun or knife?" Wells wrote. "The answer is unclear under the current statutory language."
Hawk said he had similar questions about the breadth of the law when it was proposed, including whether it could be used as a defense if a vehicle owner killed someone he thought was stealing his car, only to find out later the vehicle was being lawfully repossessed.
"It just seemed like it opened up those kind of 'what ifs,' " Hawk said.
Carlson said most of those concerns have been addressed with a 2010 amendment that tied "Stand Your Ground" to previous statutes that included a reasonableness requirement and a clarification that the use of deadly force is permitted to prevent "imminent death or great bodily harm" to oneself or an innocent third party, but not necessarily in protection of unattended property.
"Basically, it means that whenever you honestly believe you have an immediate threat of great bodily harm, you can use up to deadly force," Carlson said. "Of course, all of that would have to be sorted out by the court system and the investigating officers."
Carlson said the Legislature is constantly working to polish and update laws, but he is "not in favor of looking at anything to lower the standard for right of self-defense."
Finney said she remains worried about the effect of "Stand Your Ground" in places where people who look a certain way are considered more threatening than others.
Finney and other African-American leaders spoke at a rally  attended by about 200 people last week in Wichita. She said Tuesday she hoped the renewed discussions about "Stand Your Ground" also might spur a larger conversation about race relations.
"I've often spoke about racial profiling in Kansas," Finney said. "The problem is really prevalent throughout Kansas, and it seems like it often fell on deaf ears."
