When family members and friends of 
 come together at a humble Baptist church on 108th Avenue in Queens on the evening of December 1 to mourn his death, neither the mayor nor the police commissioner will be in attendance.
Commissioner Raymond Kelly announced yesterday that a committee of ranking police officials would review procedures for undercover operations at the New York Police Department, after police fired 50 shots at the car Bell was driving. 
Deputy Mayor Dennis Walcott, the senior black member of Mayor Bloomberg's administration, will represent the city at the funeral. Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday that after speaking with Bishop Lester Williams on Tuesday, he decided not to attend the funeral.
Bishop Williams was scheduled to preside over Bell's wedding last Saturday, but after the shooting, he will now administer the funeral.
"I think all of us, our hearts go out to the parents and to the fiancee and his two children," the bishop said at P.S. 21 in the Bronx. "It's very, very sad. When you look parents in the eye, and they are coming to grips with the fact that their son is not going to come home, it is a very difficult thing."
The shooting of Bell, 23, Joseph Guzman, 31, and Trent Benefield, 23, has led several community and religious leaders to accuse the police department of systematic racism and violence against young, black men.
The mayor and other officials have said the event was an isolated incident in which police seemed to have used "excessive" force.
The new committee will be led by the police official in charge of the department's Internal Affairs Bureau, Chief Charles Campisi. It will look into recruitment, selection, training, and operations of units that use undercover officers, Mr. Kelly said. The deputy commissioner of public safety for the New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services, Cedric Alexander, will be a part of the committee.
As the hour of the funeral neared, the mother of another man shot and killed by police lit a candle in Bell's memory outside the Kalua Cabaret. The three men who were shot were trailed from the club by an undercover detective who believed they had a gun, police said.
"I came here today to give my condolences," Phyllis Clayborne-Watson, whose son Timothy Stansbury was shot on the roof of a Brooklyn housing project by a police officer on January 24, 2004, said. He was shot after he opened a door to a roof, startling an officer patrolling the area.
"I'm feeling her pain," she said of Bell's mother.
Speaking for the first time about the shooting, the president of Queens, Helen Marshall, joined the chorus of officials calling the shooting "excessive." Ms. Marshall was in Los Angeles when the shooting happened, she said.
The police yesterday continued their search for the "fourth man," a missing link that police say may have been carrying a gun but fled Liverpool Street before the shooting began. Two witnesses have said they saw a man wearing a beige jacket run away just before the police opened fire when Bell drove his car into the undercover officer and a minivan with two police officers inside.
Four people were arrested "in relation to" the investigation of the events surrounding Bell's death on Wednesday morning, Mr. Kelly said, but he refused to provide details of their relation to Bell.
Stanley Smith, 23, Latoya Smith, 26, Timothy Smith, 19, and Christopher Keyes, 18, were arrested and charged by police with criminal possession of a weapon in the 2nd and 3rd degrees. Police said a bag of marijuana was also found. A Smith and Wesson 9mm pistol with its serial number filed off was found in Stanley Smith's bedroom closet, according to the criminal complaint.
The Queens district attorney's office, which is investigating the five officers involved with Bell's shooting, declined to prosecute Ms. Smith.
Residents of the building where the four people live said Bell was known to spend time there, but they denied the existence of a "fourth man."
"They broke down my door," Ms. Smith, who said she knew Bell, said. "I was scared. I didn't know what was going on."
The police have been coming to the building and asking questions since the shooting, residents said.
A group of people gathered near another makeshift memorial to Bell inside the building. Near a collection of candles and photographs, a graffiti artist, who identified himself only as Lee, painted Bell's likeness on different pieces of clothing. Using electric blues and pinks, he penned the inscription "Always Missed But Never Forgotten" on a T-shirt that he sold for $35. The hood of one young woman's sweatshirt read "R.I.P."
