THE THREE MEN shot by cops in Queens grew up together and stuck by each other through good times - and bad.
Relatives and neighbors insisted that 
 Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield were family men whose friendship revolved around the positive things in life. 
But all three also had criminal records, sources said.
Bell had been arrested twice in the past eight months on drug charges and he was busted in 2000 as a juvenile for possession of a firearm and three air pistols, sources said.
Guzman's record includes nine arrests for drug offenses, but he had not been collared since a felony drug charge in 2002. He pleaded guilty in that case and recently completed parole.
Benefield was arrested in connection with a gunpoint robbery in 2002 and a drug bust in 2004, and cops have three arrest warrants for him on mostly minor charges.
But those details were far from the minds of the trio's loved ones yesterday as controversy deepened over the shooting that left Bell dead and Guzman and Benefield wounded.
Instead, they painted a picture of vibrant young men from the streets of Far Rockaway bound together through tough economic times and growing pains by shared interests and history.
"They were real good friends for a long time," said Tyheem Browning, 17, Guzman's brother. All three men loved kids. Bell, 23, and Guzman, 31, had families of their own; Benefield's girlfriend is expecting a child.
They also found common ground through sports.
Bell, who left behind two young daughters, was a star baseball player in high school. Guzman loves to shoot hoops near his home in Ocean Village, a high-rise housing development. Benefield, 23, worked in construction and coached youth basketball teams in his Jamaica neighborhood.
"He lived to teach little kids," said Melissa Morgan, 37, a neighbor of Benefield. "He wanted to keep kids safe, teach them and support them."
"All the kids in the community love him," added Tamara Brown.
Guzman also worked construction jobs and doted on his two children, Tyshaun, 11, and Juwan, 6.
"He spends a lot of time with his kids," Browning said.
dgoldiner@nydailynews.com
