A BRIDEGROOM died in a hail of 50 bullets when police opened fire on his car hours before his wedding.
 23, was on his stag night when police blasted the vehicle after being told he and his friends had a gun. 
One officer alone fired 31 shots as Bell was killed and two of his closest friends were injured.
But not a single weapon was found on them. "We were supposed to go to a wedding - now we're going to a funeral, " said relative Oniaja Shepherd, 43.
Bell was killed by two shots that hit him in the neck and arm.
One detective on the scene of the New York street shook his head as he admitted that the shooting was "a major screw-up".
Civil rights leader the Rev Al Sharpton demanded an explanation for the gunning down of the men. "There's no way in anyone's mind that we can see how 50 shots had to be fired, " he said.
The victim had been planning to walk down the aisle with Nicole Paultre, 22, his long-time girlfriend and the mother of his two daughters.
She went to the shooting scene on Saturday instead of her wedding. She told officers, "I am the intended bride", and then collapsed.
Bell's party had been at the Kalua Restaurant and Lounge in Jamaica, Queens, to celebrate his last night as a single man. The men left the club just before the 4am closing time and planned to go to a diner with a stripper.
However, there was a sevenman undercover police team working the club, thought to be a prostitution and drug den.
Police Commissioner Ray Kelly said an undercover officer followed the men from Kalua after overhearing a fight in which Bell had said: "Let's **** him up." Kelly said the undercover officer then heard Bell's pal Joseph Guzman, shout: "Yo, go get my gun!" Moments later, a second undercover officer confronted the three men as they got into their Nissan Altima.
The car pulled forward and hit the officer, then continued and crashed into an unmarked police mini-van.
The Altima then backed up, jumped the curb, hit the rolleddown gate of a building, went forward and clipped the mini-van a second time.
The undercover officer then fired the first shot and four other officers began shooting what became dozens of rounds into the Nissan. Bell was pronounced dead shortly after. Guzman, 31, was shot in the foot and neck.
The third friend, Trent Benefield, 23, suffered 17 wounds.
Three years ago, Bell and Nicole had their first daughter, Jada, and five months ago, they had their second girl, Jordyn.
It was after the second child that they decided to get married.
The couple had expected 160 people to attend their wedding reception a few blocks from their high school where Bell was a star baseball player.
Now that is where they will hold the funeral reception.
