
 never gave up his dream of a big league career - not when he had to stop playing to care for his family. Not after several arrests. Not after the daunting task of getting into shape after a four-year layoff.
The persistence looked like it would pay off for the 23-year-old. According to one of Bell's closest friends, the righthanded pitcher had received an offer to try out for the Dodgers' farm system just two weeks before he was gunned down by police Saturday morning - hours before his wedding. 
Jason Powell, who played first base on the same John Adams high school team that Bell starred for, told the Daily News yesterday that Bell had spent the last year getting himself back into shape.
"He stopped playing on the field, but he still stayed in the gym. He would tell me, 'I've got to get some more mass because I know I'm going to need that for tryouts,' " said Powell, 24. "He didn't want to lose a step."
Powell said William Bell, Sean's father, had been able to secure the tryout through a friend who had ties to the Dodgers. And even though it had been four years since Bell had pitched competitively - he last played for Nassau Community College in 2002 - Powell said his former teammate had the talent and ability to likely garner attention.
"Sean worked so hard because he had such a passion to play," Powell said. "He could still throw in the high 80s and he was working to get in the low 90s."
Larry Minor coached Bell that one season at NCC, when the team made it to the third round of the National Junior College Athletic Association playoffs.
"He most definitely had potential. He was definitely at that time considered as a pro prospect. No question about it. His sophomore year, I think there would have been a very good chance of him being drafted," said Minor.
Bell, however, had to put baseball on hold after one season. His high school sweetheart, Nicole Paultre, was pregnant with the couple's first child, a daughter, and Bell wanted to devote time to family. Minor said that Bell's maturity stood out.
"What I really respected about Sean, he was always a mature, young man at his age," said Minor. "Most young men would not say, 'I'm going to stop doing what I've been doing since I was a kid.' He realized (baseball) came second to family." Paultre gave birth to the couple's second daughter earlier this year.
Despite the four-year layoff, Bell never abandoned his hope. An area scout who remembered Bell's NCC days, however, described him only as an average prospect.
But Powell, Minor and Bell's high school coach, Glenn Beyer, all thought if anyone had a shot at making it, it was the muscular pitcher who helped the John Adams Spartans win the '99 PSAL title.
"He was a hell of a kid," said Beyer. "Polite, respectful and a tremendous talent. I remember like yesterday the first time he pitched in preseason 1999. He faced 12 batters at George Washington - Manny Ramirez's old school - and struck out eight. I told him afterward, 'Do you realize what you just did?' This whole incident has been a terrible tragedy."
