EVER since he was a kid, this cop dreamed of joining the NYPD. Now, aburning building looks more inviting. 
"Whatever we do, we're damned," said the officer, who plans to apply tothe Fire Department.  
At this critical moment in our city's history, when we need firmleadership and a level head, our clueless mayor has chosen to act like arank amateur. 
He's handed the reins of this city to the likes of Al Sharpton and JesseJackson, the dilettante civil-rights leader who parachutes in whenever aHollywood star utters a racial slur or a New York City cop shoots his gun. 
Under the spell of these men, Mayor Bloomberg has already declared thatthe fatal police shooting of 

 - still under investigation and withmany questions unanswered - was no mistake. 
The city's chief executive has all but declared it a crime. 
"Excessive," Bloomberg termed the episode, a word that echoed from 1Police Plaza to your local precinct. 
"There is no evidence that they [Bell and friends] were doing anythingwrong," he also said - implying that all evidence has already beencollected. 
And then, the city's de facto commander-in-chief - the man the policecommissioner and all cops answer to - said his remarks were those of a"civilian." What? 
Now, an energized Mayor Sharpton is ramping up the rhetoric. He declared,"We will be shopping for justice while people go shopping for theholidays!" 
These cops don't stand a chance. 
The tragic death of 

 on the eve of his wedding, absolutelydeserves a thorough review. Among the questions that should be answered inthe coming days is - why were 50 shots fired at the car he was driving? 
Reports so far suggest the cops had reason to fear for their lives -rightly or wrongly. Maybe they panicked. Or perhaps their fear wasjustified. This is why we have investigations. 
But to call it a crime is premature at best. And reckless at worst. 
"We go out there every day and we make a difference," another city copsaid to me. His stress was evident - this man should not have to protest somuch. Deep in their hearts, Sharpton and Bloomberg know it is true. 
But with Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson in charge, the truth doesn't standa chance. And neither does this city.
