University of Miami coach Frank Haith was on the sideline for Tuesday's 61-59 loss to Northwestern in Evanston, Ill., while police in New York continue to investigate the shooting death of his nephew. 

 23, was shot and killed by undercover police outside a New York strip club early Saturday morning after he attended his own bachelor party. Bell was scheduled to marry Nicole Paultre hours after he was killed.
Bell is the son of William Bell, who is Haith's older brother.
Haith said Tuesday that he will attend his nephew's funeral Friday in New York. He called 

 a "good kid" who was "looking forward to getting married and beginning a new chapter in his life."
Haith said that Bell had two children with Paultre.
"Our family is devastated, but I would prefer to wait until all the facts are known before commenting further," Haith said.
According to police, five undercover officers fired 50 bullets at Bell's car after he drove toward one of them and an unmarked police van. Two passengers in Bell's vehicle were also shot numerous times but survived.
Bell and the two passengers -- Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield -- were unarmed.
On Monday, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg called the shooting "inexplicable" and "unacceptable."
"It sounds to me like excessive force was used," Bloomberg told The New York Times.
Jack McClinton led the Hurricanes (4-3) with 30 points on Tuesday night. McClinton was 5-of-9 on three-pointers and 7-of-8 on free throws. Brian Asbury was the next-highest scorer for the Hurricanes with nine points. All of Asbury's points came on three-pointers, where he finished 3-for-6.
The Wildcats were led by Craig Moore, who scored 24 points, including 7-of-10 on three-pointers.
Leading 50-47 with5:56 left, Northwestern (4-2) scored seven straight points.
McClinton then scored six consecutive points and after Doyle hit a free throw for Northwestern, McClinton hit a three-pointer to cut the Wildcats' lead to 58-56 with 1:05 left.
Asbury made a three-pointer to get the Hurricanes within 60-59 with 15.3 left. McClinton then missed a chance to take the lead in the final seconds by missing a long three-pointer.
Haith said he learned of the shooting early Saturday, but decided to coach the Hurricanes in their 98-66 victory against Lafayette at the BankUnited Center. UM players and assistant coaches did not find out about the shooting until after that game.
Haith will return with UM to Miami today. After attending the funeral on Friday, Haith will fly back home in time to coach Sunday's ACC opener against Georgia Tech.
jorge_milian@pbpost.com
The Associated Press contributed to this story.
