RAIDS AIMED at flushing out an "important" witness to the 50-shot police barrage that killed 
 on his wedding day ratcheted up tensions yesterday in Queens, where angry residents accused cops of blaming the victims.
While the dragnet resulted in the arrests of six people, several on gun charges unrelated to the tragic shooting, cops did not find the mystery man. 
The cops also failed to find the handgun that police believe one of Bell's pals reached for when the undercover and plainclothes cops opened fire early Saturday near a seedy strip club.
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly defended the raids - as sources said at least four witnesses have told investigators they saw a man in a tan jacket standing near Bell's car just before the shooting started.
"The existence of a fourth person is important to this investigation," Kelly said.
But Sanford Rubenstein, the attorney for the two men wounded in the shooting - Trent Benefield, 23, and Joseph Guzman, 31 - said "the concept of a fourth man is a myth, created by whoever for whatever spin."
The aggressive police tactics infuriated black residents in Jamaica, who are seething over the fatal police shooting of yet another unarmed black man.
"I think what they are doing is repulsive, disgusting and deplorable," said Bishop Erskine Williams Sr., whose son was among those nabbed Wednesday and yesterday during police raids at the Baisley Park Houses in Jamaica.
"They are trying to put together something to cover up an assassination and an execution of this young boy," said Williams, who has been acting as a spokesman for Benefield and Guzman.
Narcotics cops conducted the first raid at 6 a.m. Wednesday, taking four people into custody. Three of them were charged with criminal possession of a weapon - a loaded 9-mm. handgun that had no relationship to Saturday's shooting.
One of those rousted, LaToya Smith, 26, who was not charged, said cops didn't ask her anything about the gun. She said they questioned her about Bell's pals and told her, "If you don't tell us what we want to hear, you know you can get five years."
A second raid early yesterday resulted in the arrests of Williams' son, Erskine Jr., 26, for failing to pay a $25 fine for trespassing last year. Nabbed with him was his friend Jameek Benston.
"They wanted to know what I was talking to Trent about," said the younger Williams, who had spent two nights sitting by Benefield's bed at Mary Immaculate Hospital. "They told me I knew who the fourth guy was."
Williams Jr. said that when he denied knowing who the fourth person was, they accused him of selling drugs and asked if he knew local thugs known as "Red," "Duck" and "Bone."
Cops using information gleaned from the raids zeroed in on a Jean Nelson, a 27-year-old man known as "M.O." When Nelson stepped out of his apartment building about 8:25 p.m. yesterday, detectives hauled him into a police car, Nelson's father said.
It was the second time since the fatal shooting that he had been taken into custody, his dad said.
"Cops are hassling everyone in the complex. They're messing with poor people," said the dad, who declined to give his name. "They are trying to frame people. Anybody they can."
Late yesterday cops raided another apartment - this time in the Bronx - and arrested a tall black man, sources said.
Benefield and Guzman had taken Bell to the Kalua Cabaret in Jamaica for a bachelor bash - unaware that cops investigating drugs and prostitution were staking it out.
Believing Guzman had a gun, an undercover cop followed the men to Bell's car and fired the opening salvo after Bell clipped him with the vehicle. The undercover and four other officers fired 50 times.
Benefield, who was shot three times, and Guzman, who was hit 11 times, insist cops did not identify themselves before they started firing. But the undercover cop and police union officials contend the cops fired after Bell hit the undercover and a passenger allegedly reached for a gun.
Guzman's fiance, Eboni Browning, scoffed at those claims. "If there was a fourth guy, he must be bionic because how could you not get hit with 50 shots," she said.
The officers - two black, two white and one dark-skinned Hispanic - have been placed on paid leave and told to give up their guns. The shooting is being investigated by the Queens district attorney.
csiemaszko@nydailynews.com
