The undercover police officer who fired the first shots at a carload of men in Queens early Saturday, setting off a storm of police bullets that killed a bridegroom and injured two of his friends, suspected at least one of the men had a gun and was intent on returning with it to a nearby strip club, according to a person briefed on the officers' version of events.
  In all, five plainclothes officers -- two of them detectives working under cover -- fired 50 bullets at a silver Nissan Altima, killing 
 23, who was to be married Saturday, and injuring Joseph Guzman, 31, and Trent Benefield, 23. Moments earlier, just after 4 a.m., the three had left a bachelor party at Club Kalua, a strip club under surveillance on 94th Avenue in Jamaica.
The undercover detective who fired first had been monitoring the group in the club. Once outside, the detective heard Mr. Guzman say ''Yo, get my gun, get my gun,'' and head with the others to his car, according to police. The undercover officer followed the group on foot, then positioned himself in front of their car. 
  According to the person briefed on the accounts, the detective, his police badge around his neck, then pulled out his gun, identified himself as a police officer and ordered the occupants to show their hands. They did not comply, the person said, but instead gunned the car forward, hitting the undercover officer and, seconds later, an unmarked police minivan. The undercover officer fired the first of 11 shots, yelling, ''He's got a gun! He's got a gun!''
  The undercover officer's version of Saturday's shooting came on a day when he and the four other officers involved in the shooting were put on paid administrative leave and stripped of their weapons. The police publicly offered few additional details about the shooting, refusing to even release the names of the officers involved.
  At the same time, hundreds of people in Queens angrily protested the shooting, prayed and mourned in vigils, and demanded that the officers resign.
  But one law enforcement official who had information about Mr. Benefield's account said the young man told investigators that Mr. Bell panicked when he saw the undercover officer with a gun because he did not realize the man was a police officer.
  Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, for his part, on Saturday night called Mr. Bell's fiancee, Nicole Paultre, 22, who is also the mother of the couple's two young daughters, to express sympathy, city officials said.
  No weapons were found in the Altima, which Mr. Bell had been driving.
  In numerous previous police shootings, officers who fired their weapons were reassigned to administrative duties and allowed to keep their guns. Often after those shootings, police spokesmen quickly stated that the shootings appeared to be within department guidelines, and thus justified.
  But Saturday's shootings may have violated department rules, which largely prohibit officers from firing at vehicles. According to police guidelines, officers can fire only when they or another person is threatened by deadly physical force, but not if that physical force comes from a moving vehicle alone.
  ''The theory is that if the cops have time to set up a clean shot, they have time to get out of the way,'' said Eugene O'Donnell, professor of police studies at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. ''The cops shouldn't be firing unless they have a clean line of fire. If they have the time to establish that shot they probably have time to get out of the way.''
  But Paul J. Browne, the Police Department's chief spokesman, and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said it was too early to characterize the shootings. Mr. Browne said it was the department's prerogative to put the officers on leave until the department learned more about how the night's events unfolded.
  Police investigators will not be able to interview the five men who fired their weapons -- four detectives, two of them working undercover in the nightclub, and one police officer in plain clothes -- until the Queen's district attorney's office finishes its investigation.
  Queens District Attorney Richard A. Brown said yesterday that there would be "a full and fair investigation," but that his inquiry was in the preliminary stages. He said it would include a review of autopsy and medical reports, the police reports of the shootings, 911 tapes and video recordings from inside and outside the club. 
  He said it was too soon to say whether the case would be presented to a grand jury. Mr. Brown said that later today, he planned to meet with the Rev. Al Sharpton, other community leaders and some of the victims' family members. 
  But in past police shooting cases, when the facts were in dispute, evidence was put before a grand jury. He said the inquiry likely would go on for a number of weeks, but could not say precisely how long.
  Roughly 300 protesters gathered at a fiery rally led by Mr. Sharpton in front of Mary Immaculate Hospital yesterday, where Mr. Benefield and Mr. Guzman were recovering from their bullet wounds. Some protesters called for the ouster of Mr. Kelly; others demanded that the five officers resign.
  Malcolm Smith, a Democratic state senator from Queens, urged calm, saying an impartial investigation was under way, but was drowned out by a chorus of shouts and boos. When Thomas White Jr., a councilman who represents the 28th District in Jamaica, said ''We are not going to be angry,'' the crowd roared back: ''Oh, yes we are!''
  Many at the protest saw parallels between Saturday's shooting and the death of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed Western African immigrant who was fatally gunned down by police officers in 1999. One sign read, ''41 now 50,'' a reference to the number of shots fired at Mr. Diallo and the number fired Saturday night.
  In Mr. Diallo's shooting death, though, the four officers who fired at him were white. The undercover officer who fired the first shots Saturday was a Hispanic black, according to the police. Two other officers who fired at the Altima were black, and another two were white, one of whom went through one clip and reloaded his pistol, firing a total of 31 shots.
  Mr. Bell's fiancee, Ms. Paultre, collapsed while walking from Community Church of Christ, where supporters were gathered, to the rally, her face twisted with grief. After the rally, protesters marched around the hospital, filling the street and sidewalks and chanting. They marched to the 103rd police precinct station, where officers stood at metal barricades, but the tension broke, and the crowd returned to the hospital.
  After night fell, people gathered in front of Mr. Benefield's apartment building on 123-65 147th Street in Queens, holding candles, laying flowers and murmuring prayers.
  ''Those shootouts are like the Wild Wild West out there,'' said Bishop Lester Williams, the pastor at the Community Church of Christ, who was going to officiate at the wedding. ''That's an execution -- that's like putting someone in front of a firing squad.''
  Mr. Benefield, who had been struck three times in the leg and buttock, was alert and in stable condition, and Mr. Guzman, who had at least 11 bullet wounds along his right side, was in stable but critical condition, a hospital spokeswoman said. Mr. Guzman, according to the state Department of Correctional Services, has a criminal record including convictions for robbery, criminal possession of a weapon and criminal sale of a controlled substance.
  Sanford Rubenstein, the lawyer representing the two men and their families, said he had not yet spoken with either man and did not know their accounts of the night's events.
  The police, in describing the events leading to the shooting, said that undercover officers and detectives from the Manhattan South vice enforcement squad and the department's narcotics division were patrolling Club Kalua Saturday following a string of violations there for prostitution, under-age drinking and weapons complaints. Eight of the violations this year had resulted in arrests, three of them involving patrons who were arrested for criminal possession of a weapon, the police said. One more violation at the club would result in its closing, the police said.
  The undercover officer who eventually fired the first shots Saturday had been in the club, the police said. He saw one patron pat his waistband, indicating he had a gun; the undercover officer then radioed his supervisor, who was in an unmarked police car outside.
  The undercover officer then went outside, and saw a group of eight men, including two men believed to be Mr. Guzman and Mr. Bell, arguing with another man. Mr. Guzman then asked for his gun, according to the police.
  The group then apparently split up into two groups of four, though it was unclear whether that patron who had patted his waistband was with them, the police said. Mr. Guzman and Mr. Bell's group turned the corner onto Liverpool Street and got into the Altima.
  James M. Moschella, a lawyer for the detectives' union who is representing the four detectives during the preliminary stages of the investigation, defended their actions yesterday.
  ''Each officer who discharged their weapons believed that their lives and the lives of their partners were in imminent danger,'' he said.
  Michael J. Palladino, the president of the Detective Endowment Association, insisted that deadly force was being used against the detectives, which could have justified their response. ''The amounts of shots that were fired do not necessarily spell out the word excessive,'' he said.
