They were high-school sweethearts -  proud parents on the verge of solidifying their relationship in marriage.  
Now the groom is dead at the hands of police, and his mother is devastated.   
"I'm numb," said Valerie Bell, whose son, 

 23, was one of three men shot by cops near the Kalua club in Jamaica, Queens. "He was supposed to get married today. I'm numb."  
Bell's cousin Robert Porter, who was supposed to be the DJ at the wedding, said Bell was eager to take the next big step in his life.  
"He was going to have a beautiful wedding, live his life with his children, and now this," Bell said.  
"He was a good young man, never caused any problems, and now he's dead."  
Bell and fiance Nicole Paultre, 22, began dating eight years ago as students at John Adams HS in Ozone Park, where Bell was a star baseball player.  
Three years ago, the two had their first daughter, Jada, and five months ago, they had their second girl, Jordyn.   
It was after the second child that they decided to tie the knot "because it's the right thing to do," said Paultre's godfather, Ray Hargrove, 53.  
"They've been sweethearts since high school, and they stuck together. And now they were going to make it righteous."  
The couple expected 160 people from around the country to attend their wedding reception at the La Bella Vita restaurant and catering hall, just a few blocks from their high school.  
Now that is where they will hold the funeral reception.  
"He did not deserve to be killed execution-style on his wedding day," said Paultre's mother, Laura. "He was a beloved son, father, soon to be husband."  
Salmon, roast beef and pork loin highlighted the buffet menu, but alcohol was not to be served, except for one champagne toast.  
"I'm not celebrating," said Paultre's father, Les. "I'm supposed to be celebrating my daughter's wedding."  
La Bella Vita owner Tony Modica said he saw only    good things in the    young couple.  
"They were really    in love, you could    just tell," he said. "They were a very nice family."  
At the restaurant's upstairs reception hall, a white board saying "Sean and Nicole" was still hanging.  
The flowers never arrived and the cake was never baked.  
The families have now shifted their focus toward justice, enlisting the aid of the Rev. Al Sharpton.  
"Today, she's preparing for his funeral rather than his wedding," Sharpton said. "We need real answers." 
