Cracking night, Gromit! Were Rabbit wins children's Bafta
WALLACE and Gromit scooped a children's Bafta to add to their clutch of awards. Wallace and Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit won the feature film category at the British Academy Children's Film and Television Awards. The absentminded inventor and his dog fended off competition from The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest.
Police shoot man on wedding day THERE were calls today for the sacking of New York's police commissioner after officers killed an unarmed black man on his wedding day and wounded two friends. 
 23, who had been due to marry the mother of his two young children, was shot at 4am on Saturday outside the Kalua Cabaret strip club. 
At a rally yesterday led by civil rights activist the Rev Al Sharpton, the crowd called for the removal of Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly. A police spokesman said: "We are continuing to look for additional witnesses."
Five officers are on paid leave pending an investigation.
Man dies after fight over parking A MAN died after a fight with one of his neighbours over a parking space.
Keith Rolfe, 60, suffered a heart attack after he came to blows with another man during a row outside his house in Aldershot. Neighbours said there had been frequent arguments in the cul-de-sac where both men lived.
A resident said: "Parking around here causes a lot of grievances because people get constantly blocked in."
Cabbies have toughest job in UK DRIVING a taxi in London is Britain's most difficult job, according to Discovery Channel show Hard Labour which conducted eight months of research. It says cab driving is far more stressful than working on a Scottish trawler in the North Sea, chopping trees in the Great Yorkshire Forest or drilling for oil off the coast of the Shetlands. A spokesman for Discovery Channel said: "Navigating dangerous roads all day is seriously underestimated."
Metroline bus strike is called off A STRIKE set for today at one of London's busiest bus companies has been called off after bosses agreed to drivers' pay demands.
The Transport & General union has already staged two 24-hour walkouts and had threatened more, including today, unless Metroline increased its original five per cent offer. But at the last minute the company agreed to boost hourly and weekend pay by 6.5 per cent - twice the inflation rate. The revised offer will go to a new ballot this week.
Afghan suicide blast kills three A SUICIDE bomber attacked a convoy of foreign troops in southern Afghanistan today, killing two Canadian soldiers and an Afghan civilian, police said. The car bomb also injured a second civilian and killed 15 camels being herded by a group of nomads, Kandahar police chief Ismatullah Alizai said. A spokesman for Nato's International Security Assistance Force said two soldiers had been killed but did not release their nationalities.
News in brief Humpbacks have human neurons HUMPBACK whales have a type of brain cell seen only in humans, the great apes and other cetaceans such as dolphins. The finding of this cell, the spindle neuron in the cortex, may help explain whales' abilities to form alliances, co-operate, and use tools, say researchers at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York. Spindle neurons probably first appeared in the common ancestor of hominids, humans and great apes about 15 million years ago.
