In venturing that the fatal 50-bullet police shooting was "unacceptable or inexplicable," Mayor Bloomberg rendered a fair preliminary assessment of a tragedy that, more and more, appears to have stemmed from a failure to follow proper NYPD procedures by cops who were on the front lines in the war on illegal guns.
The mayor's frankness - and the accompanying openness of Police Commissioner Ray Kelly - had the salutary effect of channeling outrage over the death of 23-year-old 
 toward the constructive purposes of completing an investigation into potential criminal liability and reviewing how to avoid a recurrence. 
Some members of the NYPD have taken Bloomberg's statement as a rush to judgment by a politician seeking to quell upset among New York City blacks, while a small number of black voices have declared Bell's killing and the wounding of two friends to be evidence of systemic, institutionalized, racially motivated brutality. On both extremes, the perspectives are wholly unfounded.
Facts are facts, and Bloomberg and Kelly have made the right moves in releasing them as they've become known, incomplete and unpleasant as they are, as well as in keeping political, religious and community leaders abreast of developments. Overwhelmingly, those leaders have responded with anger tempered by reason. Generally speaking, there is wise recognition of what this incident does and does not represent.
As the evidence is now known, the shooting was a marked aberration from the professionalism and restraint displayed daily by the NYPD - and one based on an unusual confluence of misapprehensions. After an altercation involving threats of a gun outside a crime-prone strip club, Bell and his friends may well have seen as a menace an undercover cop following them, while the cop and his team were clearly concerned about getting fired upon.
The young men, unarmed, attempted to flee, striking the undercover officer with their car and colliding with an unmarked police van. The undercover opened fire, squeezing off 11 shots, while another cop let go of 31 rounds in a matter of seconds. Both, the evidence suggests, lost touch with the rules of engagement while their colleagues were also firing their weapons.
In the first instance, the NYPD patrol guide generally forbids firing on a moving vehicle, and in the second instance, it is inconceivable that the officer who fired 31 times had a solid grasp of whom or what he was shooting at. A cardinal rule of the department says cops should reassess their targets after firing three rounds.
The smell is of fear, not of wanton brutality or of gunplay that fits a pattern of excessive force. In fact, in the average shooting incident, cops fire fewer than four bullets. And with the undercover team composed of black, white and Hispanic officers, race is not the issue.
A decision as to bringing criminal charges against any of the cops will depend on a probe by Queens District Attorney Richard Brown. More information will emerge and come into play before a grand jury takes such a grave and fateful step. Fair-minded New Yorkers will withhold judgment until all the evidence is in. And everyone should remember that these apparently errant cops had set out with the intention of getting an illegal gun, which they believed to exist, off the street - noble work and demanding of great bravery.
Only yesterday, federal prosecutors in Brooklyn began the trial of Ronell Wilson, who is charged with the 2003 executions of Detectives James Nemorin and Rodney Andrews. The detectives had tried to buy guns from Wilson and wound up paying with their lives, according to the indictment. Here, because there are too many illegal weapons on the streets, Bell died on the very day he was to be married to Nicole Paultre, the mother of his two young children. This is not meant to excuse officers who failed to rise to the challenge. It is only to emphasize how gross the tragedy is.
