NEW YORK
Mayor meets with family of victim
Mayor Michael Bloomberg met Tuesday with the family of the man who was killed on his wedding day in a barrage of police gunfire as he left his bachelor party, and investigators questioned a third civilian witness. 
Three days after the fatal encounter, it remained unclear why four detectives and one police officer opened fire while conducting an undercover operation at a strip club.
The unidentified third witness was on a darkened block in Queens when five police officers killed 23-year-old 
 and injured two friends as the three sat inside a car, officials said.
On Tuesday, Bloomberg went to the Bell family's Queens church, where he met with the parents and fiancee of the victim.
The mayor stood by his comments Tuesday that officers appeared to use "excessive force" when Bell was killed.
DAYTON, OHIO
Woman arrested, may have microwaved baby
A mother was arrested on suspicion of murdering her newborn daughter by microwaving the baby in an oven.
China Arnold, 26, was jailed Monday on a charge of aggravated murder, more than a year after she brought her dead month-old baby to a hospital. Bail was set Tuesday at $1 million.
"We have reason to believe, and we have some forensic evidence that is consistent with our belief, that a microwave oven was used in this death," said Ken Betz, director of the Montgomery County coroner's office.
He said the evidence included high-heat internal injuries and the absence of external burn marks on the baby, Paris Talley.
Arnold was arrested soon after the baby's death in August 2005, then was released while authorities investigated further. Betz said the case was difficult because "there is not a lot of scientific research and data on the effect of microwaves on human beings."
WICHITA, KAN.
Man dies month after a $1.1 million award
The man who successfully sued a television station for naming him as a suspect in the BTK serial killings has died, a month after a jury awarded him $1.1 million.
Roger Valadez, 66, apparently suffered a heart attack Monday evening at his home.
With his death, the defamation verdict may be thrown out. Under Kansas law, decisions in libel cases do not survive the plaintiff's death, media attorney Mike Merriam said.
Last month, a jury found that Emmis Communications, owner at the time of KSNW-TV in Wichita, and news director Todd Spessard defamed Valadez for the coverage of his arrest on Dec. 1, 2004.
Valadez was never charged with the killings. Dennis Rader eventually confessed to all 10 killings from 1974 to 1991.
