A Queens bachelor party turned into a bloodbath early yesterday when five cops opened fire on a car with 50 shots - killing the groom-to-be, wounding his two friends and leaving furious relatives demanding answers from the NYPD.  
The 4 a.m. shooting in Jamaica happened just after the trio had left a strip club called the Kalua Restaurant and Lounge, where 

 23, celebrated his last night as a single man, police said.  
Police Commissioner Ray Kelly said an undercover officer, part of a seven-cop unit conducting surveillance on the troubled nightspot, followed the men from Kalua after overhearing a fight in which Bell had said, "Let's f- him up."  
Kelly said the undercover cop then heard Bell's pal Joseph Guzman shout, "Yo, go get my gun!"   
Moments later, a second undercover cop confronted the three men as they got into their Nissan Altima on Liverpool Street. The Altima pulled forward and hit the cop, then continued and crashed into an unmarked police minivan that had just turned the corner from 94th Avenue.  
The Altima then backed up, jumped the curb, hit the rolled-down gate of a building, went forward and clipped the minivan a second time.  
Kelly said the undercover cop hit by the van, just prior to his run-in with the trio, had yelled, "It's getting hot on Liverpool! For real, I think there's a gun!"  
That detective squeezed off the first shot, Kelly said, and four other cops began firing what became dozens of rounds into the Nissan, bullets flying in all directions.  
Kelly said a total of 50 shots were fired - including 31 by one detective.  
A police source said the undercover cop had identified himself before he was hit by the car.  
"I saw two cars facing each other. I saw the [detective] jump out and start shooting," said Daniel Rafael, 23, who had been on his way home from a party. "I saw them fire about six or seven shots. That's when I ran inside."  
Bell, whose wedding to Nicole Paultre, his longtime girlfriend and the mother of his two daughters, had been scheduled for 5 p.m. yesterday, was shot in the neck and arm. He was pronounced dead shortly after the shooting.  
Guzman, 31, was shot in the foot and neck, Kelly said.  
The third friend, Trent Benefield, 23, suffered 17 wounds, though it was unclear how many were from bullets.  
Police sources said there may have been a fourth man who ran from the Altima before the shooting started.  
One detective on the scene shook his head as he told The Post that the shooting was "a major screw-up."  
Another cop later said, "It could be like the guy with the wallet" - referring to unarmed Bronx man Amadou Diallo, who in 1999 was hit by 19 of 41 bullets fired by cops as he grabbed for his wallet.  
Mayor Bloomberg said in a statement: "Although it is too early to draw conclusions . . . we know that the NYPD officers on the scene had reason to believe that an altercation involving a firearm was about to happen and [that they] were trying to stop it."  
Police sources said detectives from a Manhattan South vice squad were at Kalua, a known prostitution and drug den, conducting surveillance as part of a citywide crackdown on club crime.   
They had been targeting prostitution, but their attention was diverted when two undercover cops inside the club noticed a bouncer signaling to a dancer that he had a gun and telling her that he could take care of any problems for her.  
Cops radioed detectives in the unmarked van about the gun. That's when Bell, Guzman and Benefield were overheard getting into a fight.  
Kelly said that the shooting was now the subject of a grand-jury investigation and that he could not say whether it was justified.  
"Let me assure everyone that this will be a full, fair and complete investigation," Queens DA Richard Brown said.  
Kelly said the cops involved ranged in experience from five to 17 years. The detective who fired 31 times has been on the force 12 years.  
The standard-issue police pistol holds 16 rounds. There were at least 45 evidence markers, normally used to document the location of shell casings, on the ground.  
Sources said the three victims - none of whom was charged with any crime - each had a rap sheet with multiple arrests and at least one gun-related charge.  
Cops were searching last night for evidence in their vehicle, including a secret compartment where a gun could be stored, sources said.  
A doctor said Guzman and Benefield were in stable condition at Mary Immaculate Hospital - where relatives and the Rev. Al Sharpton demanded an explanation for what they insisted was an unjustified shooting.  
"There's no way in anyone's mind that we can see how 50 shots had to be fired," Sharpton said. "For this kind of shooting to happen based on their story is absolutely unthinkable."  
Bell was black, as are Guzman and Benefield. Two of the five cops involved in the shooting are white, two are black, and the other is Hispanic.  
Among unanswered questions are:  
* Why did Guzman spend half of yesterday handcuffed to his hospital bed?  
* And why was Benefield shackled hand and foot to his?  
Relatives said the two were initially placed under arrest, but the cuffs were removed after press inquiries.  
Club photographer Roy Brown said the three friends were having a quiet, well-behaved evening at Kalua. He said they didn't have any drinks and were just enjoying the entertainment, at one point posing for pictures.  
"They were just in there like the other guys, watching the girls, all having fun," he said. "None of them seemed drunk to me. They were just regular guys."  
The men left the club just before the 4 a.m. closing time and had planned to go to a diner with a stripper named Trini, Brown said.  
"They were celebrating. The guy was getting married," said Benefield's mom, Denise Ford. "They left the club. They made a mistake and ran into a [detective's] car."  
Ford said the shooting left her son "angry, very angry."  
She also said the cops were too "hotheaded."  
"Something needs to be done about them," she said. "They do things and get away with it. It's not right or fair to us. Something needs to be done, and I'm going to start."  
One bullet struck an AirTrain elevated platform above 94th Avenue, shattering a window and spraying glass on two Port Authority cops. None of the six people on the platform was hurt, but service was shut down for seven hours.  
As of last night, cops had not yet recovered a gun from the Altima.  
Benefield's pregnant fiance, Nyla Paige, 18, didn't expect them to find anything.  
"If you ask me, it's an outrage," she said - "innocent people in a car getting shot for no reason."  
Residents on Liverpool Street said they were startled as bullets went through windows, into cars and even hit a lamp in one man's living room.  
"I heard several shots one after the other - pow-pow-pow," said a college student named Sad. "I thought it was a dream, but then I heard, like, sirens and helicopters and ambulances.  
"The cops had a guy in handcuffs on the ground. He was shot in the legs," she said. "Somebody was wiping his leg. There was a lot of blood around. They picked him up by the shoulders, and he was screaming, 'My legs! My legs!' "     
Additional reporting by Mark Bulliet, John Mazor, Angela Montefinise, Philip Messing and Frank Ryan 
1.  

 23, Joseph Guzman, 31, and Trent Benefield, 27, exit Queens strip club Kalua around 4 a.m. and head to their car on Liverpool St.  
2.  Two undercover cops attempt to question the trio, who pull away from the curb. Their Altima (above) is blocked in by two unmarked police cars, then backs up and hits an undercover cop. It pulls forward and strikes the 
unmarked police minivan.  
3.   Five cops fire 50 shots at the car - one cop firing as many as 30 - with some bullets hitting other parked cars and windows of nearby residences, leaving Bell dead and the other two wounded. 
4.  One bullet shatters a window on the AirTrain Jamaica Station platform just a few feet from where two Port Authority cops are standing.  
