An unarmed man shot to death by New York police hours before his wedding was the nephew of Miami Hurricanes basketball coach Frank Haith.
Community leaders in New York were angered by the 50-bullet volley Saturday that killed 23-year-old 
 after his bachelor party, wounded two of his friends and ignited concerns over police tactics. The three men were unarmed. 
Bell was the son of Haith's brother.
Haith was with his team for Tuesday night's game at Northwestern. He planned to travel to New York for the funeral.
AROUND MLB
The New York Yankees won the bidding for Japanese LHP Kei Igawa when the Hanshin Tigers accepted their offer of about $25 million. Igawa went 14-9 last season with a 2.97 ERA in Japan. ... The Los Angeles Dodgers signed free-agent LHP Randy Wolf to a one-year, $8 million deal. ... The Toronto Blue Jays re-signed C Greg Zaun to a two-year, $7.25 million contract. ... The St. Louis Cardinals signed four players, including 2B Adam Kennedy and RHP Kip Wells. ... The Kansas City Royals traded INF Donnie Murphy to Oakland for cash. ... LHP Brian Shouse and the Milwaukee Brewers avoided salary arbitration when they agreed to a one-year contract worth $975,000. ... The Baltimore Orioles reached preliminary agreements on a $10.5 million, three-year contract with RHP Chad Bradford and a $900,000, one-year deal with RHP Scott Williamson.
AROUND THE NHL
The Phoenix Coyotes traded minor-league F Tyson Nash to Toronto for backup G Mikael Tellqvist. The Coyotes said that they also sent a fourth-round 2007 draft pick to the Maple Leafs. ... Sabres F Jiri Novotny will miss up to 10 days after injuring his upper body during a win over the New York Rangers on Sunday.
ELSEWHERE
The NBA's Charlotte Bobcats signed swingman Derek Anderson. ... The Jacksonville University volleyball team signed two players - Aidan Yeager and Brittany Lehman - for the 2007 season. ... Florida State volleyball players Makini Thompson and Brianna Barry earned conference honors. Thompson, a junior outside hitter, was named a first-team All-ACC player. Barry, a middle blocker, earned a spot on the ACC all-freshmen team.
