After all the witnesses are interviewed and all the evidence is analyzed and all the questions are answered as to how the police came to fire 50 shots at three unarmed men, the case will turn on one subjective word.
"Reasonably." 
The word features prominently in Section 35 of the New York State Penal Law. Subsection 30 states a cop can use deadly force only to defend himself or another person from "what the officer reasonably believes to be the use or imminent use of deadly physical force."
The state Court of Appeals has ruled that "a determination of reasonableness must be based on the circumstances facing a defendant." These circumstances include "more than the physical movements of the potential assailant."
Also to be considered are "any relevant knowledge the defendant had about that person," such as "Were his buddies overheard talking about a gun?"
Equally important are "any prior experiences he had which could provide a reasonable basis for a belief ... deadly force was necessary." That could include a cop's experience on the job.
The court says it all comes down to this: "The jury must first determine whether the defendant had the requisite beliefs. Then the jury must also consider whether these beliefs were reasonable."
In other words, the grand jury will initially consider whether the cops believed they were in imminent and mortal danger on Liverpool St. in Jamaica, Queens, early Saturday.
The jurors will then consider the full context, everything the prosecutors present regarding what transpired before and during the shooting. The jurors will also no doubt consider the demeanor and credibility of the officers who choose to testify. Whether or not the cops are indicted could come down to whether they come across as being generally reasonable people.
"It's the total circumstances," a law enforcement official says.
Should the jurors find the cops were reasonable in believing themselves in mortal danger, the number of shots may be an issue. The law states a cop may use physical force "when and to the extent he reasonably believes such to be necessary."
Here again arises that word, reasonably, all the more subjective if a cop is found legally justified in firing that first shot. If one shot is not too many, then exactly how many are? Is the cop justified in emptying an entire magazine or even nearly two?
Nobody can rightly describe firing of 50 shots at three unarmed young men as even remotely reasonable. But the question is whether the cops reasonably believed they were in danger. Whether they actually were is not, ultimately, at issue legally.
Also, the law seems to lack a precise definition of "reasonable." The closest the Court of Appeals comes to this is a case holding that cops can stop a person on "reasonable suspicion," which is described as "the quantum of knowledge sufficient to induce an ordinarily prudent and cautious man under the circumstances to believe criminal activity is at hand."
Otherwise, the law seems to define a reasonable belief as: what a reasonable person believes given the particular circumstances. This circular definition is set forth in what legal experts call the touchstone case regarding deadly force in New York, People vs. Bernhard Goetz.
"It always comes back to Bernie," a law enforcement official said yesterday.
The Subway Vigilante case hinged on a related subsection of Section 35. Subsection 15 says a person can use deadly force against another person if "he reasonably believes that such other person is using or about to use deadly physical force" or commit a rape or robbery.
Here, the Court of Appeals ruled "reasonable" did not just mean what the defendant considered reasonable. The whole context had to be considered.
The context in this instance prompted the court to reinstate the attempted-murder indictment against Goetz for shooting four teens he believed were about to rob him on the IRT in 1984.
However, Goetz was acquitted at trial after the jury decided he had been reasonable in believing he was about to be robbed. He was convicted only on a weapon charge, even though he fired on an already prone and wounded teen, saying, "You don't look so bad, here's another."
Which would suggest that "reasonably" is too subjective a term for anybody to predict how the current case will play out, even after all the big questions are answered.
mdaly@nydailynews.com
