Police shoot 3 near NYC club; one dies
NEW YORK - Police opened fire early yesterday on a car full of men driving away from a bachelor party at a strip club, killing the groom on his wedding day after an undercover officer was rammed with the car. 
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said it was too early to say whether the shooting was justified. At least three officers were injured, he said. The incident, which occurred around 4 a.m., stemmed from an undercover operation inside the club, Kelly said.
Kelly said the car also rammed into an unmarked police minivan. Police fired at least 50 rounds at the car.
Relatives of the slain man, 
 23, and community leaders, including the Rev. Al Sharpton, demanded an investigation into what some called an overreaction by officers.
Two others in the car, Trent Benefield, 23, and Joseph Guzman, 31, were taken to Mary Immaculate Hospital. Kelly said there may have been a fourth person in the car who fled.
Hopes dim in hunt for Minn. brothers
RED LAKE, Minn. - Authorities grew more concerned yesterday about two young brothers, missing for three days from the Red Lake Indian Reservation, after temperatures dipped below freezing overnight.
Teams of searchers, aided by specially trained dogs and aircraft with sophisticated camera equipment, continued their search yesterday for Tristan Anthony White, 4, and Avery Lee Stately, 2, both missing since Wednesday.
"The weather had been mild, but last night, with those kinds of temps, that does concern us, if there were children in the woods going into a third night," FBI Special Agent Paul McCabe said.
The FBI was also investigating the possibility that the boys were taken; McCabe said a tip line set up Friday generated about 35 phone calls but no hard leads.
Transaction fees part of HCA deal
NASHVILLE - The new owners of HCA Inc., the nation's largest for-profit hospital chain, will collect $175 million in transaction fees as part of a completed $21.3 billion leveraged buyout to take the company private.
The affiliates of HCA's new owners will also get an additional $15 million or more a year in management fees from the company, according to a report filed by HCA on Friday with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The hospital chain was sold on Nov. 17 to HCA management and Hercules Holding II L.L.C., a consortium of private investment funds including Bain Capital Partners L.L.C., Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity.
Elsewhere:
 was jailed for more than a day after Mexican border officials found 650 rounds of ammunition in his car, authorities said yesterday. The unidentified agent was arrested Thursday as he entered Mexico at the San Luis Port of Entry in southwest Arizona, and was released late Friday and returned to the United States, Mexican and U.S. authorities said.
 in Gatlinburg, Tenn., collapsed as more than 30 family members posed for a group picture Friday afternoon, sending 11 to the hospital, officials said.
