AN INQUIRY was under way last night after New York police shot dead a bridegroom and injured two of his friends when officers opened fire on their vehicle at the end of stag-night visit to a strip club. 
 23, died in a hail of bullets after police fired 50 rounds at his car.
His two passengers were critically injured after being hit multiple times during the shooting in the early hours of Saturday morning prompted after the stag-night revellers struck a police van.
Joseph Guzman, 31, was hit 11 times and Trent Benefield, 23, three times.
All three were found to be unarmed and the incident has provoked an outcry from their families and community leaders.
Mr Bell, who has two babies, aged three and five months, had been due to get married hours later that day.
His fiancEe, instead of getting married in front of 250 people, spent the weekend at the bedside of the injured men.
The shooting took place after an undercover operation at a lap-dancing club called Kalua Cabaret in the borough of Queens.
Seven officers were staking out the club which was under investigation for drugs and prostitution.
It is believed one of the undercover police overhead a remark 'get my gun' from one of the trio inside the club.
The three men later got into a car and as Mr Bell was driving away he struck an officer on foot it is thought by accident.
The car backed up onto the pavement and hit a police van.
Officers then jumped out and opened fire .
One, a veteran of the NYPD, fired his 9mm handgun 31 times, emptying two magazines. Some of the bullets hit nearby houses and a train station, but no passers-by were injured.
New York mayor Michael Bloomberg said police had feared for their lives. He added that they thought a gunfight was about to take place.
However, civil rights activist, Reverend Al Sharpton, said: 'This stinks.
Something about the story being told does not seem right.' New York police commissioner Raymond Kelly has confirmed an investigation had been launched into the shooting.
