Last weekend's senseless shooting of three unarmed men in Queens by undercover officers, combined with other disturbing indicators, shows that Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly's NYPD is failing to protect and serve the public the way it should.
Everything we know about the slaughter of 
 and the grievous wounding of Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield in a hail of bullets suggests the cops involved were poorly supervised - and, at a minimum, broke department rules by firing, over and over, at a moving car. 
"There is no evidence whatsoever that [Bell and his friends] were doing anything wrong, period," is how Mayor Bloomberg put it.
The cops will get their day in court, but there's a larger pattern of possible NYPD misconduct that Kelly must address.
According to the Independent Budget Office, the Civilian Complaint Review Board got 5,089 complaints in 2003, and the number increased to 6,358 last year, a spike of 25%.
The department says cases jumped due to the ease of making complaints through the 311 system. And a bunch came from protesters arrested during the 2004 Republican National Convention.
But in fiscal 2004, according to IBO spokesman Doug Turetsky, the city was hit with 1,856 lawsuits alleging false arrest, assault, excessive force or other wrongdoing by cops. The number of claims jumped to 2,080 in fiscal 2006, an increase of 12%.
These cases drain millions from the public treasury. In fiscal 2004, the government settled claims totaling $42.6 million, a 23% increase from the previous year.
It takes, on average, 4 1/2 years to resolve each police action claim, so a lot of the money being shelled out today stems from police conduct that predates Kelly's current stint as commissioner under Bloomberg.
But 353 police action claims were filed in July and August of this year, a 22% increase from the 289 claims during the same months last year.
Go beyond the statistics and it looks like Kelly has been slow to act on anecdotal evidence that brutality and misconduct are on the rise.
In June, 17-year-old Xavier Simpson, the son of a city correction officer, turned up with a broken arm and ankle, claiming he was walking down a Queens street, then "grabbed, choked, beaten, kicked, punched, stomped - everything" by cops from the 105th Precinct who stopped and questioned Simpson and allegedly didn't like the teen's answers.
The police charged Simpson with resisting arrest and obstructing traffic, but prosecutors dropped the charges. Simpson announced plans to sue the city.
More recently, the Rev. Calvin Butts of Harlem got into a heated verbal altercation with cops over a traffic ticket that nearly turned physical.
And last month, black and Latino cops went public with allegations that a captain in a Brooklyn transit district ordered them to stop all black males exiting a Park Slope station - an action Kelly said resulted from a "misunderstanding."
To make matters worse, a long downward trend in violent crime has sputtered to a halt. Murders citywide are up 7.5% this year, and some areas are seeing huge increases. Homicides are up by 20% in Staten Island compared with last year, up 43% in northern Manhattan and up 17% in north Brooklyn and the Bronx.
In response, Kelly's department has announced a series of police sweeps in 11 tough precincts. That's a good first step - but only if the cops get trained to go after real crime and not innocent citizens.
elouis@nydailynews.com
