EVEN AS a probe widens of a fatal shooting by cops in Queens, the details hardly matter to some New Yorkers.
To them, the story always ends the same: An unarmed black man dies at hands of cops.
"Of course it angers me as a black man because it was uncalled for," said Khalef Balo, 40, of Hillside, Queens. "Police have a suspicion that the black man is always dangerous."
Evidence of dissent is plentiful. 
Near the strip club where 

 was shot dead early Saturday after his bachelor party, two signs were taped to a brick wall: "Death to Police Brutality and Murder" and "Off the Pigs Who Shoot Our Kids."
At the Jamaica Colosseum Mall, clerk Alpha Eah, 33, said customers have been seething.
"They're talking about it a lot," he said. "People are mad about it. They're saying it's too much - 50 shots."
Tiana Richardson, 15, said some people in her high school "have it out bad for the cops" because of the shooting. "They treated him like garbage," Tiana said of Bell.
Throughout the overwhelmingly black community of Jamaica, men and women said the shooting has dominated conversations in malls, beauty salons, churches and other public places.
"At this point, I think the people do need to take to the streets," said Delores Jones-Brown, a professor at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. "It is clear that the message of being tempered and hoping that things will change is not getting across to the people who need to understand."
Others, including the Revs. Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton, had a more muted message.
They visited the scene yesterday where Bell lost his life, accompanying Bell's fiance and his parents. They passed by a growing memorial of flowers, photos and dozens of candles lit in remembrance.
"We appeal to people: Don't do anything disruptive or any way contrary to the memory of 

" Sharpton said at a news conference, standing next to Bell's parents.
Police statistics show that the number of NYPD shootings in the city plunged from 253 in 1997 to 112 in 2006 with the number of rounds fired decreasing from 1,040 to 429.
What has been slower to change is the racial makeup of the NYPD. Of the approximately 35,689 uniformed officers, 16.3% are black.
On the street, the perception remains that the shooting has racial overtones because the victims were black and the shooter who fired the bulk of the bullets was white.
"This is a symbol, not an aberration. Our criminal justice system is broken down on black America, on young black males," Jackson said, calling on the FBI to investigate.
Police said that the groom was involved in an argument after 4 a.m. and that one of his friends made a reference to a gun.
The undercover detective followed the men, police said, and began firing because he thought Guzman was reaching into his waistband for a gun.
After the detective fired, the others joined in. The 12-year veteran who fired his weapon 31 times, one of two white cops in the group, paused to reload.
Two of Bell's friends, Joseph Guzman, 31, and Trent Benefield, 23, remain hospitalized.
Bishop Lester Williams, who was supposed to marry Bell and his fiance, said "the community wants justice."
"You don't want the city to erupt in violence, you want peace," he said, "but you've got to make changes."
tmoore@nydailynews.com
