  Video:   NYC Mayor Disturbed by Deadly Shooting 
  Video:   Bloomberg Holds Meeting Over NYPD Shooting 
 NEW YORK -- Mayor Michael Bloomberg weighed in on the uproar over a deadly police shooting, saying bluntly Monday that officers appeared to use excessive force when they fired 50 shots at an unarmed man in a confrontation outside a strip club hours before his wedding. 
"I can tell you that it is to me unacceptable or inexplicable how you can have 50-odd shots fired, but that's up to the investigation to find out what really happened," Bloomberg said at a news conference after meeting with elected officials and community leaders including the Rev. Al Sharpton and U.S. Rep. Charles Rangel.  
The groom, 
 23, was killed and two of his friends wounded early Saturday after a bachelor party at the club. Suspecting that one of the men had a gun, undercover police fired into their car after it hit one officer. The men were unarmed. 
Sharpton called the meeting "very candid." He said the message to Bloomberg was: "This city must show moral outrage that 50 shots were fired on three unarmed men." Some have also questioned whether the shooting was racially motivated because all the victims were black. The five officers who opened fire were two blacks, two whites and one Hispanic. 
Of the victims, Bloomberg said Monday, "There is no evidence that they were doing anything wrong," referring to everything leading up to the moment they struck the officer with their car. 
High court says U.S. can see reporters' phone records WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court ruled against The New York Times on Monday, refusing to block the government from reviewing telephone records of two Times reporters in a leak investigation concerning an examination of terrorism funding. 
The one-sentence order came in a First Amendment battle that involves stories written in 2001 by Judith Miller and Philip Shenon, then reporters for the Times. The stories revealed the government's plans to freeze the assets of two Islamic charities, the Holy Land Foundation and the Global Relief Foundation. 
U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald is trying to identify the reporters' confidential sources for the stories. Fitzgerald's spokesman, Randall Samborn, declined to comment on the Supreme Court's order. 
The dispute stems from Shenon and Miller calling the two charities for comment after learning of the planned freeze on their assets from confidential sources. The Justice Department says the reporters' calls tipped off the charities that they would be raided. A federal judge who ruled in the Times' favor said there was no evidence in the case even suggesting that the reporters tipped off the charities about the raids or that the reporters even knew the government would raid either charity. 
The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled 2-1 in August that federal prosecutors could see the two reporters' phone records. 
FBI to examine shootout that killed woman, 88 ATLANTA -- The FBI will lead the investigation of the shootout between plainclothes police officers and an 88-year-old woman who was killed in her home, which was suspected to contain drugs, Police Chief Richard Pennington said Monday. 
Three officers were wounded when they entered Kathryn Johnston's home looking for cocaine based on tips from an informant, according to the search warrant released Monday by the Fulton County State Court. 
Police said the informant told officers he had purchased drugs in the home, prompting investigators to get a warrant. But Pennington said it was unclear whether there had been a drug deal or whether the suspected drug dealer exists. 
Seven narcotics investigators and a sergeant were placed on paid leave until the inquiry is complete, Pennington said. The informant is in protective custody and will be a key part of the investigation, he said. 
The Medical Examiner's Office also reported Sunday that records show Kathryn Johnston was 88, despite her family saying she was 92. 
Massachusetts to sue Big Dig contractors after fatality BOSTON -- The state of Massachusetts will file a multimillion-dollar lawsuit against companies that worked on a Big Dig highway tunnel, claiming that their negligence led to the ceiling collapse that killed a woman in July, the state's attorney general, Tom Reilly, said Monday. 
Reilly said he would seek unspecified damages for repairs, loss of tunnel use and toll revenue and other economic factors in a lawsuit to be filed Tuesday in Suffolk Superior Court. 
He said the suit would name 15 firms involved in the management, design, construction or oversight of the Interstate 90 tunnel, but only one -- the project manager, Bechtel/Parsons Brinckerhoff -- would face the more serious claim of gross negligence. 
The firm knew early on about problems with the epoxy bolt system used to secure 4,500-pound cement ceiling panels but still turned over the tunnel to the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority in 2003 without warning of the "potentially dangerous situation," Reilly said. 
Four of the concrete panels fell onto a car July 10, killing a passenger, Milena Del Valle, 39, of Boston. 
Device to prevent clot-forming heartbeat being tested WASHINGTON -- At least 120,000 Americans a year suffer strokes because of a common irregular heartbeat -- one that's on the rise, hard to treat and can shoot deadly blood clots straight to the brain. Now doctors are experimenting with a new way to prevent those brain attacks: a tiny device that seals off a little section of the jiggling heart where the clots form. 
If it works -- and a major study is under way -- the Watchman device might provide long-needed protection for thousands of people with atrial fibrillation, whose main hope now is a problematic blood-thinning drug that too many can't tolerate. 
"I don't think I'm biased, but it could potentially revolutionize a-fib, which is a ton of people," said Dr. Steven Almany, the vice chief of cardiology at William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich. He has implanted the Watchman into more than a dozen patients. 
About 2.8 million Americans have atrial fibrillation, the most common type of irregular heartbeat. It is most common among the elderly. 
A-fib occurs when the heart's top chambers, called the atria, get out of sync with the bottom chambers' pumping. The atria speed up, sometimes so fast that they quiver like a bag of worms. Blood pools inside a pocket of the heart, allowing clots to form. 
