THEY ARRIVED for a wedding only to find the beginnings of a funeral.
A handful of guests showed up at the scheduled nuptials of high school sweethearts 

 and Nicole Paultre last night, unaware that the groom had died in a hail of police gunfire hours before. 
The room in La Bella Vita catering hall in Ozone Park, Queens, where the couple would have become husband and wife, was dark. It will now be used for a reception after Bell's funeral.
"[Bell's mother] called this morning, and she was in shock," said hall owner Tony Modica, who was forced to return the reception's flowers and balloons. "They were devastated."
A sign outside the hall still carried a sign last evening that the wedding of "Sean & Nicole" was to be held upstairs.
But hours before the scheduled 8 p.m. ceremony, Paultre's family called the catering hall to stop the delivery of a three-tiered wedding cake and the portable altar, where the couple would have been married by Bishop Lester Williams, the pastor of the Community Church of Christ in Jamaica.
The contract negotiated by the couple with the Rockaway Blvd. hall was overwritten with the word "Cancel."
"My daughter will never be the same," said Laura Harper-Paultre, the mother of the 22-year-old bride-to-be. "This was supposed to be their wedding day."
Relatives said Bell, 23, a former high school baseball star, made the decision to propose three weeks ago and popped the question to the mother of his two daughters last week in the family's Rockaway home.
"This was the man she loved," said Susan Parker, Paultre's godmother, who helped the bride and her mother rush to buy a dress and wedding favors. "Nothing will bring him back."
Relatives said about 250 people were expected to attend the wedding and reception, eat from a 12-item buffet, toast the couple with champagne, and dance to the couple's song, "Here and Now" by Luther Vandross.
The catering hall was a favorite of the Bell family and gained local fame for its crooning owner, who created a so-called pizza dance that has entertained the likes of Frank Sinatra, John Gotti and Mayors Bloomberg and Rudy Giuliani.
"I was ready to be the best man in his wedding and now I'm planning his funeral," said Sean's brother William Bell, 28. "It's brutal."
jlemire@nydailynews.com
