E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com
In a vestibule leading to the Blue Room, the ceremonial parlor of City Hall, the countenances of former mayors gazed from the walls upon all who passed yesterday. There they were, the men who led New York across five decades: Wagner and Lindsay, Beame and Koch, Dinkins and ----
  Hold on. The last previous mayor was not there. Circumstances have delayed the completion of his portrait, his representatives said; nothing more should be read into his absence. 
But Rudolph W. Giuliani's absence was conspicuous yesterday, not only in the vestibule but also more substantively in the Blue Room itself. Gone -- exorcised, really -- was the hardness that pre-9/11 was his default position in moments of civic anguish, a rigidity that earned him at least as many detractors as admirers.
  When the unarmed Amadou Diallo was killed in 1999 by four police officers who fired 41 shots, Mr. Giuliani failed to grasp that whatever the wrongs or rights of the case, the collective New York hand needed a reassuring mayoral pat. Instead, it got a leader who stood in the Blue Room alone, lashing out almost Lear-like at his critics.
  That mayor, in every respect, was absent yesterday.
  In his place stood Michael R. Bloomberg, who understood that flexibility of the spirit does not necessarily mean weakness.
  Something terrible happened over the weekend in Queens. Another unarmed man, 
 was killed, and two other men were wounded by plainclothes police officers who fired not 41 shots but 50. The number boggled the mind.
  AND so, while insisting that an investigation must take its course before judgments are rendered, Mr. Bloomberg articulated the bafflement that many New Yorkers felt over an event that, plain and simple, didn't smell right.
  ''It sounds to me like excessive force was used,'' he said, adding minutes later, ''It's hard to understand why 50-odd shots should be taken.''
  Given that difference in tone from 1999, this mayor did not have to stand alone in the Blue Room. He was surrounded by elected officials and clergymen from Queens, all African-Americans, like Mr. Bell. For a symbolically important photo, the mayor was briefly joined by two men who were never invited to the Giuliani City Hall: the Rev. Al Sharpton and City Councilman Charles Barron.
  In the interest of reaching out, Mr. Bloomberg chose to overlook remarks made by Mr. Barron, a former Black Panther, who came awfully close on Sunday to threatening violence against the police. If the city doesn't respond to the Bell case, ''don't ask us to ask our people to be peaceful while they are being murdered,'' said Mr. Barron, ever the statesman. ''We're not the only ones that can bleed.''
  That is true. Police officers also can bleed, not that Mr. Sharpton or Mr. Barron is known for speaking out when the spilled blood is blue.
  Did they call a rally after two black undercover detectives, James V. Nemorin and Rodney J. Andrews, were shot in the back of the head in 2003 while trying to rid the streets of guns? What do you think? Even as the killing of Mr. Bell held center stage, a Staten Island man went on trial yesterday in the detectives' murder.
  Perhaps one result of the latest disaster will be a reordering of police undercover procedures. The Diallo case led to changes. But it may be worth noting that the New York police do not typically shoot at anything in sight, despite some of the overheated oratory heard in the last few days.
  By any measurement -- number of shooting incidents, number of rounds fired, number of civilians shot or wounded -- police officers reach for their guns far less often than they did 10 years ago. And 10 years ago, under Mr. Giuliani, the numbers were well below those of previous decades.
  In the early 1970s, an average of 63 civilians a year were shot to death by the police. The figure for 1996 was 30. Last year it was 9. Before the Bell episode, the 2006 total was 10.
  Of course, statistics get you only so far. Inevitably, something like Mr. Bell's death reinforces a perception among some New Yorkers that the police are trigger-happy and the ones who pay, almost always, are black men.
  Mr. Bloomberg said he did not believe that the latest shooting was racially motivated. Yet many people, he acknowledged, sense ''a pattern that is unacceptable.''
  ''I find that pattern unacceptable as well,'' he said yesterday in the Blue Room, exorcised of the spirit that once held sway there.
