A BRIDEGROOM was shot dead on his stag night when police fired more than 50 bullets into his car ... after they were wrongly told he had a gun.

 23, who was due to marry today, had just left a strip club with two friends when five officers opened fire. 
One officer fired 31 shots. Sean, a father of two, was hit in the neck and arm. Both friends were wounded.
The police pounced after an undercover officer said he heard the three men claim they had a gun. But no firearm was found on them or in their bullet-ridden car. A detective at the scene allegedly told a reporter the shooting was "a major screw-up".
Sean's 22-year-old fianc[#x17d]e Nicole, mother of his two daughters, rushed to the bar and told officers: "I am the intended bride" - before fainting.
His weeping mum Valerie said yesterday: "I'm numb." Aunt Oniaja Shepherd added: "We were supposed to go to a wedding. Now we're going to a funeral."
Sean had been in the New York club with about 20 friends. Photographer Roy Brown said: "No one seemed drunk. They were just regular guys." Two undercover officers were also in the club on a drugs and prostitution investigation.
Five more plain-clothes police were in an unmarked van outside.
At about 4am there was a scuffle allegedly involving Sean and his two close friends Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield.
One undercover cop says he heard Sean say "Let's f*** him up" and Guzman reply "Yo - go get my gun." His colleague followed the trio as they left the club and got into their car. The victims' friends say the officer then pulled his gun but failed to identify himself as a cop.
They say Sean panicked and tried to drive off, clipping the officer and smashing into the unmarked van.
The undercover officer opened fire - then four colleagues leapt from the van and also started shooting. An inquiry was last night under way.
US civil rights leader Reverend Al Sharpton said: "There's no way we can see how 50 shots had to be fired."
Sean's friend Trent, 23, has 17 wounds. Joseph, 31, was hit in the foot and neck. Both are stable in hospital. Police say a fourth man may have fled the car as shooting began.
s.white@mirror.co.uk
