NEW YORK: Mayor Michael Bloomberg has weighed in to the uproar over a New York police shooting, saying officers appeared to use excessive force when they fired 50 shots at an unarmed man outside a strip club hours before his wedding. 
''I can tell you it is to me unacceptable or inexplicable how you can have 50-odd shots fired, but that's up to the investigation to find out what really happened,'' Mr Bloomberg said yesterday.
He was speaking after meeting New York officials and community leaders, including black civil rights leader the Reverend Al Sharpton and congressman Charles Rangel.
 23, was killed and two of his friends wounded early on Saturday when police opened fire after a bachelor party at the strip club.
Mr Bell's car reportedly struck an undercover police officer and a police car as he pulled away from the club with two friends.
Suspecting one of the men had a gun, police opened fire. All three were unarmed.
In her first public comments on the shooting, Mr Bell's fiancee, Nicole Paultre, told a radio station the people who shot him should not be called officers: ''They were murderers, murderers.''
Mr Sharpton said the conference of leaders had been ''very candid''. The message to Mr Bloomberg was: ''This city must show moral outrage that 50 shots were fired on three unarmed men.''
Some have suggested the shooting was racially motivated, as the victims were all black. Of the five officers who fired, two were white, one was hispanic and two were black.
Mr Bloomberg said there was ''no evidence'' the victims were doing anything wrong before their car struck the police officer.
For a mayor to question the actions of the police and defend the shooting victims sets a different tone for the city. Former mayor Rudy Giuliani was attacked in 1999 for responding too slowly to the killing of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed West African immigrant who was shot 19 times by four white officers, who were acquitted.
The Bell shooting stemmed from an undercover case in the Kalua Cabaret club. Seven officers were investigating prostitution and drug use.
One 12-year veteran fired his weapon 31 times.
