E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com
Meanwhile, in Brooklyn, some attention turned this week to cops who lost life, not cops who took life.
  The city's focus, understandably, has been on the police fusillade in Queens that killed an unarmed 

 on what was to have been his wedding day. This tale is New York gothic at its most refined, a conflation of race, politics, undercover police methods and lethal force.
But meanwhile, in Brooklyn, some attention turned to cops who lost life, not cops who took life. 
  This is happening in a federal courtroom where a Staten Island man with an expressionless face is on trial for his life, charged with shooting two undercover police detectives in the back of the head. He in effect executed them, it is charged, for the effrontery of trying to rid the streets of illegal guns.
  These two events would seem unrelated. But they are two faces of the same New York story. Both involve police undercover work that went disastrously wrong, although in different ways.
  The very nature of this work can lead to nightmarish situations because, by definition, undercover officers are supposed to melt into their surroundings. Snap decisions -- when to back off, when to make arrests, certainly when to shoot -- are rarely uncomplicated or without peril.
  In the case before the Brooklyn jury, the murdered detectives pretended one night in March 2003 that they were interested in buying a gun. As part of this pretense, according to the charges, they sat up front in a car, acting as if they had a bond with two men in the back seat.
  This was a mistake. It allowed one of the men in the back to fire at them, point-blank.
  They paid with their lives, Detectives James V. Nemorin, 36, and Rodney J. Andrews, 34 -- they with five children between them.
  Much about the Queens shooting last Saturday remains unclear. But from details that have emerged, it seems that in this case, as well, the decisions to be made were hard and dangerous, and they produced horrible consequences.
  One of the undercover police officers, by his account, feared that several young men who had just left a strip club either had a gun or were about to get one. He drew his weapon and fired on their car, touching off a 50-round barrage from him and other officers on his undercover team.
  This, too, it would seem, was a mistake, but someone else paid with his life: Mr. Bell, who was 23 and had two children.
  In such shootings, race almost always figures in the equation -- what role did it play, what does it say about a city where everything is not necessarily black and white. That is especially so in these two cases.
  All the victims were black men: Mr. Bell and the two detectives. The man accused of murdering the police officers, Ronell Wilson, is also black. So are seven other men who were charged in that killing. So, too, is the undercover officer who opened fire last Saturday.
  Looked at this way, the issue is not really about race, some may say. Mr. Bell's father, William Bell, said as much the other day. It is not so much about color, he said, as about the police and their sense of humanity.
  But one would have to be willfully blind not to notice that so often when there is a questionable police killing of an unarmed New Yorker, the victim is a black man. Randolph Evans, Nathaniel Gaines Jr., Amadou Diallo, Ousmane Zongo, Timothy Stansbury Jr. and now 

 -- the depressing roll call could go on and on.
  Almost inevitably, outrage builds after each episode, along with demands for altered police practices. This week, the reaction has been relatively muted compared with previous situations. Nonetheless, the chorus of protest has many voices, and it may swell further today with a funeral service for Mr. Bell.
  MEANWHILE, in Brooklyn, attention also turned to cops who lost life, not cops who took life.
  This trial reinforces another reality, namely that the sorts of police undercover operations that sometimes kill black men also help keep black men alive.
  The type of highly dangerous work performed by Detectives Nemorin and Andrews has led to the confiscation of thousands of illicit guns. Disproportionately, black neighborhoods are the targets of such operations. 
  But then, also disproportionately, black men are the ones killed by these weapons. It is why police sting operations are carried out more often in black neighborhoods than in white precincts like Park Avenue, where crime is more typically waged with pens, not guns.
  The risky work is not flawless. It frequently leads to innocent young black men believing they are singled out and stopped by the police merely because of the way they look or dress. Tensions usually remain beneath the surface, if barely, until something goes awry, as it did in Queens.
  Somehow, the outrage is not usually as great when the victim is a police officer. Perhaps that is because risk is part of the job, perhaps because the police are held to higher standards than street criminals. 
  Even so, when the victims are cops, like Detectives Nemorin and Andrews, anger has a way of subsiding.
  Yesterday, Day 4 of Mr. Wilson's trial in Federal District Court, relatively few people showed up to hear testimony about how the accused man supposedly got hold of the gun that he used. A bench reserved for the general public was only half-filled for most of the afternoon session. 
  On the streets outside the courthouse, there were no protesters, no cries for justice, no anger, no weeping.
  Even so, in a week dominated by the appalling death of an unarmed man, it was notable that meanwhile, in Brooklyn, some attention turned to cops who lost life, not cops who took life.
