ON A DAY OF RAGE and sorrow, a source told the Daily News yesterday that prosecutors are expected to ask a grand jury this week to probe the fatal shooting of an unarmed groom on his wedding day.
As hundreds of protesters took to the streets to demand justice, Queens District Attorney Richard Brown was preparing to present the case to the panel "in the next few days," the source said.
Brown is to meet this morning with his homicide investigator and the head of his investigations unit to review evidence in the Saturday morning shooting outside a strip club, the source said. 
The five NYPD officers who fired their weapons were placed on paid administrative leave yesterday and asked to surrender their weapons, as the Rev. Al Sharpton led a rally outside the hospital where the two survivors were being treated.
The names of the officers were not released, and none of them has been interviewed by investigators.
Meanwhile, Mayor Bloomberg has arranged a meeting with community leaders at City Hall to discuss the shooting.
Bloomberg, believed to have been at his Bermuda home over the weekend, spent yesterday calling or e-mailing black leaders, including Rep. Charles Rangel, the Rev. Floyd Flake and former Mayor David Dinkins.
"He said he was doing everything he could to find out what happened," City Councilman Leroy Comrie (D-Queens) said of Bloomberg. "He wanted to assure me he was engaged, involved, and that we would get to the bottom of what happened."
Michael Palladino, president of the Detectives' Endowment Association, praised NYPD brass for "allowing the investigation to proceed before rushing to any judgment."
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said the officers opened fire on the car carrying the three men when the driver, 
 rammed their unmarked minivan.
Bell, 23, who was to be married later Saturday to the mother of his two children, was shot in the neck and killed. His friends, Joseph Guzman, 31, and Trent Benefield, 23, were wounded in the 4 a.m. incident outside the Kalua Cabaret on 94th Ave. in Jamaica.
Kelly said statements an undercover officer overheard inside the club led police to believe the men were going to retrieve a weapon. No gun was found in Bell's car.
Friends who had attended a bachelor party for Bell at the club told cops Bell, Benefield and Guzman mistook the plainclothes officers for robbers and were trying to get away.
A Hispanic undercover officer who was rammed by the minivan fired the first shot, followed by 10 more rounds. A white plainclothes detective who was in the rammed van got out and fired 31 shots, stopping to reload. The second officer in the van fired three times.
A lieutenant overseeing the surveillance operation was in an unmarked police car and ducked down behind the dashboard when the first shots rang out, thinking he was under fire, a source said.
Two officers riding with the lieutenant got out of the unmarked Toyota Camry and opened fire, police said. One, a 17-year veteran, fired four times, while the other officer, who has nine years on the force, fired once, police said.
Trini Wright, 28, a dancer at the club, insisted the cops opened fire without identifying themselves. She was going with Bell and his friends to a diner and was putting her makeup bag in the trunk of their car when the cops' minivan appeared.
"The minivan came around the corner and smashed into their car. And they [the cops] jumped out shooting," Wright told The News. "No 'stop.' No 'freeze.' No nothing."
The police were looking for signs of prostitution and drugs at the club when the shooting broke out.
"We cannot allow this to continue to happen," Sharpton said outside Mary Immaculate Hospital, where Guzman was in critical condition and Benefield was in stable condition.
"We've got to understand that all of us were in that car," Sharpton told about 300 protesters, who chanted, "No justice, no peace!" and counted to 50 to represent the number of shots fired.
The protesters, including Bell's grieving bride-to-be, Nicole Paultre, had marched several blocks to the hospital from Community Church of Christ, where a service was held earlier.
During the march, Paultre collapsed and had to be boosted by people surrounding her.
Sharpton compared the shooting to that of Amadou Diallo, the 22-year-old unarmed African immigrant who was shot 41 times in 1999 by police as he was reaching for his wallet.
"This is a case that is going to be a watershed case like Diallo was," Sharpton said.
