Thanksgiving travel free of major hassles
The journey home at the end of the long Thanksgiving weekend was smooth sailing for many travelers Sunday as the weather cooperated and more people had scheduled their flights to avoid the rush. 
Travelers across most of the nation had dry and relatively mild weather for their drives and flights home, except for freezing temperatures on the northern Plains and gray, slushy weather in parts of the Pacific Northwest. Chicago's temperature edged above 60 degrees.
More than 290,000 travelers were expected to go through Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport on Sunday.
Midday crowds also weren't as bad as expected at Boston's Logan International Airport. People are spreading out Thanks-giving travel plans over several days instead of hitting the airport all at the same time, said Danny Levy, a spokeswoman for the Massachusetts Port Authority, which operates Logan.
Retailers merry about sales
NEW YORK - Retailers got what they wanted over the Thanksgiving weekend - a strong start to the 2006 holiday shopping season as consumers crowded stores in search of huge discounts on flat-screen TVs and other hot merchandise.
Stores and malls that opened as early as midnight Friday drew a bigger-than-expected turnout, and robust sales for the first day of the season offset slower business as the weekend wore on.
The biggest winners appeared to be electronics chains such as Best Buy Co. Inc. and popular-priced department stores including J.C. Penney Co. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which had promised its most aggressive discounting ever, said same-store sales for November will be slightly below its already lackluster forecast.
Groom's shooting protested
NEW YORK - An angry crowd demanded Sunday to know why police officers killed an unarmed man on the day of his wedding, firing dozens of shots that also wounded two of the man's friends. Some called for the ouster of the city's police commissioner.
At a vigil and rally the day after 23-year-old 
 was supposed to have married the mother of his two young children, a crowd led by the Rev. Al Sharpton shouted "No justice, no peace."
The five officers were placed on paid administrative leave pending the investigation, a police spokesman said.
In other news
AUTHORITIES CALLED OFF a major ground search Sunday on the Red Lake Indian Reservation in Minnesota after they turned up no sign of two young brothers who have been missing since they went out to play Wednesday morning. It remained unclear whether they wandered off or were taken.
A MOTORCYCLE OFFICER INJURED last week while escorting President Bush in Honolulu died Sunday, police said. Steve Favela, 30, and two other officers crashed their cycles Tuesday. The other officers were treated at The Queen's Medical Center and released.
- Edited from wire reports by James Folker
