SIMMERING anger over a deadly police shooting in New York boiled over yesterday as police admitted an undercover officer had been drinking before he opened fire on a car containing three unarmed men. 
Witnesses contradicted an official version of events in which five police officers fired 50 shots at a car outside a nightclub in the Queens district, killing 
 23, the day before he was to get married.
Two of his friends were injured in the bloodbath.
Facing a third day of community protests, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg convened a summit of black leaders and government officials, during which he criticised the actions of the police.
''It sounds to me like excessive force was used,'' he said after the meeting.
''I can tell you that it is to me unacceptable or inexplicable how you can have 50-odd shots fired.''
The shooting has prompted anti-NYPD protests and black community leader, the Rev Al Sharpton, said many African Americans were justifiably frightened of police.
Rev Sharpton said he told Bloomberg: ''Imagine, Mr Mayor, living in a city where you have to worry about the cops and the robbers. Some people have to worry about the robbers, we have to worry about both.''
Police said they opened fire on Bell and his friends after their car rammed a police vehicle and hit an undercover police officer, who was on foot.
But yesterday, a witness said police began firing without identifying themselves or calling for the car to stop.
Trini Wright, a dancer at the club, told investigators that it was the police who rammed the car the young men were in, not the other way around.
Police Commissioner Ray Kelly revealed that one of the undercover officers had two beers inside the club but was not given a breathalyser test after the shooting.
Mr Kelly said undercover officers in the field were allowed two drinks and were not normally tested for intoxication but were instead judged fit or unfit for duty by their supervisors.
Bell's fiance and the mother of his two children, Nicole Paultre, also spoke publicly about the shooting for the first time yesterday.
She told a New York radio station: ''First I would start by not referring to them as officers, they are murderers. They are not officers.
''No one gives anybody the right to kill somebody, to take someone's life.
''They don't know what they've done. What pain they've caused to this family. To my kids.''
