LONDON -- Within the next 25 years, AIDS is set to join heart disease and stroke as one of the top three causes of death worldwide, according to a study published online Monday. When global mortality projections were last calculated a decade ago, researchers assumed the number of AIDS cases would decline. Instead, it's on the rise. Currently ranked fourth behind heart disease, stroke and respiratory infections, AIDS is set to become No. 3, say researchers in a report in the Public Library of Science's Medicine journal. It accounts for about 2.8 million yearly deaths. But the researchers estimate a total of nearly 120 million people could die in the next 25 years. Overall, researchers predict that in three decades, the causes of global mortality will be strikingly similar worldwide -- apart from the prevalence of AIDS in poorer countries. Most people will be dying at older ages of noninfectious diseases such as cardiovascular disease, stroke and cancer.

WASHINGTON -- After months of pressure from congressional Democrats, the Justice Department's inspector general, Glenn Fine, said Monday his office had opened a full review into the department's role in President Bush's domestic eavesdropping program and the legal requirements governing the program. Democrats said they saw the investigation as a welcome step that could answer questions about the operations and legal underpinnings of the program, which allows the National Security Agency to monitor, without getting court warrants, the international communications of Americans and others inside this country with suspected terrorist ties. Fine informed members of Congress in a letter he was opening an investigation after the White House had agreed to approve the necessary security clearances for members of his staff.
TORONTO -- Parliament formally recognized Quebec as a nation within Canada on Monday, a symbolic gesture that has led to a Cabinet resignation and ignited concerns over a renewed push for the French-speaking province's independence. The motion presented by Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper, which calls Quebec a nation within a united Canada, is largely symbolic in that it requires no constitutional amendment or change of law. The opposition Liberals and New Democrats supported the motion, so it passed easily through the House of Commons.
WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court ruled against the New York Times on Monday, refusing to block the government from reviewing phone records of two Times reporters in a leak investigation of a terrorism-funding probe. The one-sentence order came in a First Amendment battle involving stories written in 2001 by Times reporters Judith Miller and Philip Shenon. The stories revealed government plans to freeze the assets of two Islamic charities, the Holy Land Foundation and the Global Relief Foundation. Like the CIA leak investigation into who revealed the identity of Valerie Plame, the current Justice Department probe is being conducted by Patrick Fitzgerald, who is prosecuting Vice President Dick Cheney's former chief of staff in the Plame case.
WASHINGTON -- There's still time to get a flu shot. Federal health officials reminded people Monday that the flu season usually doesn't peak until February or later. There's more than enough vaccine to go around. Demand for flu shots typically tapers off after Thanksgiving. A record 110 million to 115 million flu shots are expected to be available this year; millions are likely to be discarded at the end of the flu season. The shots are brewed fresh before each season to match the strains of the flu virus expected to be most prevalent, and cannot be saved year to year.
NEW YORK -- Mayor Michael Bloomberg said bluntly that officers appeared to use excessive force when they fired 50 shots at unarmed men in a vehicle in a confrontation outside a strip club hours before one man was to be wed. "I can tell you that it is to me unacceptable or inexplicable how you can have 50-odd shots fired," Bloomberg said at a news conference after meeting with elected officials and community leaders, including the Rev. Al Sharpton and Rep. Charles Rangel. 
 23, was killed and two of his friends wounded early Saturday after a bachelor party at the club.
PITTSBURGH -- The cost of "The Twelve Days of Christmas" is on the rise. Buying each item in the song just once -- from a partridge in a pear tree to a dozen drummers drumming -- will cost you $18,920, or 3.1 percent more than last year, according to PNC Financial Services Group. The total cost of items gifted by a True Love who repeats all of the song's verses costs more than ever before -- $75,122 -- for all 364 items, up from $72,608 in 2005, a 3.5 percent increase.
