Police fired 50 rounds Saturday at a car of unarmed men leaving a bachelor party at a strip club, killing the groom on his wedding day in a shooting that drew a furious outcry from family members and community leaders. 
The spray of bullets hit the car 21 times after it rammed into an undercover officer and then an unmarked NYPD minivan twice, police said. Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly would not say if the collisions were what prompted police to open fire.
It was too early to say whether the shooting was justified, Kelly said. Police thought one of the men in the car might have had a gun. But armed with a search warrant, police found no weapons.
Kelly said the incident stemmed from an undercover operation inside the strip club. Seven officers in plain clothes were investigating the Kalua Cabaret, and five were involved in the shooting.
The groom, who was driving, was identified as 
 23.
After four days of combing through a vast wooded stretch of land, but finding no sign of two young brothers who went missing on the Red Lake Indian Reservation, authorities said Saturday they are likely to scale back the air and ground search later today.
The pending decision follows the most intensive and expansive day of searching for Tristan A. White, 4, and Avery Lee Stately, 2. The effort included dive teams from three counties, remote-controlled aerial vehicles peering overhead and about 100 professionals, plus scores of volunteers, withstanding below-freezing temperatures looking for the boys.
Tristan and Avery were last seen Wednesday morning as they played outside their home in the remote Walking Shield area.
FBI Special Agent Paul McCabe said Saturday afternoon that authorities are taking a two-pronged approach, trying to determine whether the boys wandered off or whether foul play was involved.
A woman's body was found wedged upside-down behind a bookcase in the New Port Richey home she shared with relatives who had spent nearly two weeks looking for her.
A spokesman for the Pasco County Sheriff's Department said Mariesa Weber's death was not suspicious. Family members said they believe she fell over as she tried to adjust the plug of a television behind the bookshelf.
Weber, 38, returned home Oct. 28 and greeted her mother, then wasn't seen again. Her family thought she had been kidnapped and contacted authorities. Family members scoured her room for clues but found nothing, though they did notice a strange smell.
On Nov. 9, Weber's sister went into her bedroom and looked behind a bookcase, where she saw the woman's foot. Using a flashlight the family saw Weber was wedged upside-down behind the unit.
From Mercury News wire services
