Investigators ramped up their search yesterday for a mysterious fourthman who cops and witnesses say fled the scene of a shooting in Queens inwhich a groom died in a barrage of 50 police bullets hours before hiswedding, sources said.  
Cops raided a Jamaica apartment building - where neighbors say injuredshooting victim Trent Benefield has been seen - in the hopes of uncoveringinformation that will lead them to that fourth man. 

 23, was killed in the hail of police bullets as he and hiswounded friends sat in a car. The shooting injured Benefield and JosephGuzman, who is in critical condition. 
Detectives hope the mystery man will be able to provide vital informationabout what happened early Saturday when Bell was killed after he and histwo pals left his bachelor party at a strip club in South Jamaica. 
None of the three shot men was armed - and that has inflamed tensionsbetween police and the black community. 
The five cops who opened fire insist they saw a fourth man, wearing abeige jacket, hop out of the car as the fusillade began. Two civilians - aman and a woman - who did not see the shooting said they saw a man wearinga beige jacket run from the scene. 
The cops said they thought one of the men in the car had a gun - raisingthe possibility that the fleeing man was armed and dumped the weapon as heran off. Officers were spotted Tuesday searching the area around theshooting scene for a firearm. 
Meanwhile, Guzman, 31, who was shot 11 times and remained in criticalcondition at Mary Immaculate Hospital, spoke out about the shooting for thefirst time yesterday, saying that he was sure the police were trying tokill him. 
"They tried to kill me. They tried to kill me. They killed Sean. Theytried to kill us. We didn't have nothing. We didn't have nothing," he toldthe Rev. Al Sharpton, who visited him at his bedside, along with the Rev.Jesse Jackson. 
"They tried to kill us, they tried to kill us," Sharpton said he keptrepeating. 
Guzman had been only semi-conscious until yesterday, when he was finallyable to speak about the night all hell broke loose outside the KaluaCabaret.  
"Those are the most poignant statements he made and we tried to consolehim that we are working with him," Jackson said. 
"Obviously, he's just coming into his own consciousness and pleading forhelp," Sharpton said. "And we promised him we will do what has to be doneto get justice." 
Guzman had gone with Bell and Benefield to the club on Friday night tocelebrate Bell's impending nuptials. The club, however, was being monitoredfor prostitution by undercover cops. 
As the night wore on, an undercover officer inside the club spotted a mandressed in black carrying what the officer believed was a gun. Heimmediately called his supervisor, Lt. Gary Napoli - who was outside withother plainclothes officers - and reported there might be an armed maninside. 
The club closed not long after, at 4 a.m. Saturday, and an undercoverofficer spotted the man in black get into a heated argument out front withBell and his friends. The officer said he grew alarmed when he overheardGuzman yell, "Yo, get my gun!" sources have said. 
The officer decided to break cover and charged toward the car with hisgun drawn and badge displayed. 
Bell slammed on the gas pedal, striking the officer, who then openedfire. 
Additional reporting by G.N. Miller and Ikimulisa Livingston
