Rocket fire from Gaza died down Sunday after a daybreak cease-fire, raising hopes for an end to five months of bloody destruction and a new opening toward peace talks.
The surprise truce was supposed to take effect at 6 a.m., but in the four hours that followed, 11 rockets were fired from Gaza at Israeli towns and villages and some Palestinian militants threatened to keep up the attacks.
Israel did not retaliate, saying it wanted to give the truce a chance.
Rivals Hamas and Fatah, the two main factions in the Palestinian government, also publicly backed the truce and by nightfall, it appeared to take hold.
An angry crowd demanded Sunday to know why police officers killed an unarmed man on the day of his wedding, firing dozens of shots that also wounded two of the man's friends. Some called for the ouster of the city's police commissioner.
At a vigil and rally the day after 23-year-old 
 was supposed to have married the mother of his two young children, a crowd led by the Rev. Al Sharpton shouted "No justice, no peace."
Paul Browne, chief spokesman for the NYPD, said Sunday: "We are continuing to look for additional witnesses to shed light on the incident, and assisting the district attorney's office with its investigation."
The five offers were placed on paid administrative leave pending the investigation, Browne said.
A British Cabinet minister accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of "attacks on individual liberty and on democracy" and said Sunday that relations with Moscow were strained after a former KGB agent was poisoned to death in London.
Peter Hain, the government's Northern Ireland Secretary, said Putin's tenure had been clouded by incidents "including an extremely murky murder of the senior Russian journalist" Anna Politkovskaya.
British officials have so far avoided blaming Moscow for Litvinenko's death and Hain did not comment directly on the case.
But opposition leaders demanded Sunday that the government explain what it knows about the poisoning and, in particular, how the deadly nuclear material used to poison the 43-year-old Litvinenko found its way into Britain.
A suicide bomber blew himself up at a restaurant in southeastern Afghanistan on Sunday, killing 15 people and wounding 24 - including an Afghan special forces commander and a district chief who were apparently targeted for the attack.
The restaurant, in southeast Paktika province, was destroyed, said provincial governor Mohammad Akram Akhpelwak.
Akhpelwak said the attacker, who was Pakistani, was believed to be targeting the special forces commander and the district chief, who were at the restaurant and were among the injured. NATO has said that as of mid-November 97 suicide attacks this year have killed 217 people.
