Middle East
Israelis, Palestinians agree to Gaza truce
Israel and the Palestinians agreed yesterday to a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip to end a five-month Israeli military offensive and the firing of rockets by Palestinian militants into the Jewish state. It was to take effect this morning. 
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas phoned Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert last night to tell him he'd arrived at an agreement with all Palestinian factions to stop firing rockets into Israel from the coastal strip, an Olmert spokeswoman said.
Miri Eisin said Abbas asked that Israel reciprocate by stopping all military operations in Gaza and withdrawing its forces, and Olmert agreed.
Lebanon
Inquiry approved into Hariri assassination
Lebanon's U.S.-backed government has approved the creation of an international tribunal to try suspects in the assassination of former prime minister Rafik Hariri, overriding objections by Hezbollah and the country's pro-Syrian president.
The approval was expected to deepen the country's political crisis and spark mass street demonstrations threatened by Hezbollah and its allies to topple the government of Prime Minister Fuad Siniora. An ongoing UN investigation into the February 2005 truck bombing that killed Hariri and 22 others has said the killing's complexity suggests the Syrian and Lebanese intelligence services played a role. Damascus has denied any involvement.
Northern Ireland
Attempted murder charges follow attack
The Protestant extremist who triggered a panicked evacuation of the Northern Ireland Assembly Friday was charged yesterday with attempting to murder four people: Sinn Fein leaders Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness and two guards.
Michael Stone, who was tackled at the entrance to Stormont Parliamentary Building, was arraigned in Belfast on five attempted murder charges - including one intended to cover everyone in the building - and also was charged with possession of weapons for terrorist purposes. The 51-year-old, who killed three people and wounded 60 when he attacked an IRA funeral in 1988, was ordered held without bail until Dec. 22.
United States
Police kill groom as he leaves his party
A 23-year-old bridegroom was shot and killed on his wedding day and two other men were wounded outside a New York strip club yesterday after police opened fire on them, police said.
There was no immediate explanation for what sparked the shooting of 
 and two friends as they drove away from Bell's bachelor party. That drew furious protests from family members and the Rev. Al Sharpton. A New York Police Department spokesman declined comment on the incident, which is under investigation.
Police said as many as eight officers, some in an unmarked car, were involved in the shooting in Queens. A witness said Bell and his friends were headed to a diner for breakfast when they were shot. .
FROM STAR WIRE SERVICES
