We always have to look closely at any event involving homicide by cops in the black community. The reasons are simple. First, there is a very long history of racist violence against black people that has just as often been committed by white police as by freelance rednecks.
Even so, there has far too often been an assumption of guilt on the part of the police that parallels the old convention of always blaming the bloodshed on the black victim, which would lead to the statement that "he was asking for it." 
Once marches and singing and placard carrying became a knee-jerk convention, what began as a righteous form of protest against injustice was slowly transformed into no more than noisy television spots for demagogues and their gullible followers. Then there is the fact that we always need to see the incident within the context of oppressive violence that has made and continues to make a hell of life in the black community.
If we look at the example of the recent homicide by police in New York City, we find undercover cops fired 50 rounds of ammunition, killing one black man, wounding two others. None of the men shot was armed.
Those defending almost any police action will say that it was a mistake. Yeah, right. Sure thing. Bull dung.
Though the police are far more often the heroes than the villains, it must, at times, be assumed that they are in the wrong. This is one of those times.
When we hear about the pressures of the job, we should realize that almost anything that happens during an officer's tour has been discussed in detail during training. Beneath every statement and every piece of professional advice, one thought keeps silently booming inside the mind of the teacher and the student: This is the kind of job that can lead to a violent death if one makes a mistake or is in the wrong place at the wrong time. Ergo: A little paranoia goes a long way and could make the difference between survival and death in the streets.
We hear about the pressures of the job and understand that they are enormous. The booming drug trade in the black community, the swelling street gangs (almost all of whom are armed) and the difficulty of telling an honest citizen from a knucklehead with a gun surely make the job demanding and dangerous.
This difficulty, by the way, is not reserved for white officers. Black officers have the same troubles because hip hop has made acting and looking like a thug an affectation on the parts of too many young black men. None of those things make a killing excusable or something that can be swept away with a frown and a look of tragic recognition.
There is a tragedy to be recognized, which is that conditions of war are so normal in black communities that we should not be surprised to see an occasional misreading lead to another black death. While all of that may be true, there is little excuse for excessive force to the point of homicide when the suspects were unarmed and had not fired even one shot themselves.
Heads should roll because the police, burdened with all of the confusions and various imbecilities that must be faced when upholding the law, manage to do their jobs without killing citizens.
Those who cannot conduct themselves with the bravery and ease of command that are second nature to the great majority of our police officers, need to find themselves another line of work as soon as they are released from prison for irresponsibly deadly actions. scrouch@nydailynews.com
O
