LONDON -- British authorities said Saturday they do not foresee a public health threat from radiation poisoning that killed a former Russian KGB officer. The Health Protection Agency, however, urged anyone who had been at a sushi bar and a hotel visited by Alexander Litvinenko on Nov. 1 to be tested by the National Health Service. Litvinenko, 43, died Thursday, killed by the radioactive isotope polonium-210. Police have found radioactive traces at the Itsu sushi bar in central London, the Mayfair Hotel bar and at the Kremlin critic's home in north London. Friends accuse President Vladimir Putin of orchestrating the assassination, a charge Putin has denied.

NEW YORK -- The nation's retailers had a strong start to the holiday shopping season, according to a national research group. But a big exception was Wal-Mart, which expects November same-store sales to be below its already lackluster forecast. ShopperTrak RCT, which surveys more than 45,000 mall-based retail outlets, Saturday reported sales rose 6 percent to $8.96 billion on Friday, compared with the same day a year ago. "This data shows an even larger increase than expected as consumers proved they were willing to spend," said Bill Martin, of ShopperTrak. Wal-Mart, however, estimated it will post a 0.1 percent decline in November in same-store sales, or sales at stores opened at least a year. Meanwhile, J.C. Penney reports it's off to "a good start" with strong sales in home entertainment, fashion jewelry, decorations and women's shoes.
NEW YORK -- A bachelor party at a strip club ended Saturday with police opening fire on a group of men, killing the groom on his wedding day. Two men were wounded, one critically. Bullets hit the car used by the three men 21 times after the vehicle rammed into an undercover officer and then an unmarked NYPD minivan twice, police said. Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly would not say if the collisions were what prompted police to open fire. Police searched the car and found no weapons. None of several officers near the Kalua Cabaret in Queens was reported injured. Relatives identified the dead man as 
 23.
BELFAST, Northern Ireland -- A Protestant militant was charged Saturday, a day after being arrested in an attack on Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness, leaders of the main Roman Catholic party Sinn Fein, as they and other legislators worked on a power-sharing agreement for Northern Ireland. Michael Stone, who served time for sectarian killings, rushed the entrance to the provincial Assembly with a fake gun and a bag of pipe bombs. He was disarmed in the lobby by security guards. Stone, 51, faces five counts of attempted murder.
SANTIAGO DE CHILE -- Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet, in power from 1973 to 1990, took full responsibility for the first time Saturday for the killings and torture that occurred during his reign. At his 91st birthday party, Pinochet also defended the military coup that ousted the elected president, Marxist Salvador Allende. The general sat by his wife as she read his statement, which said in part, "I take political responsibility for everything that was done which had no other goal than making Chile greater." Pinochet said the coup was staged to protect the country's integrity. About 200 supporters later sang "Happy Birthday" to him. Pinochet -- who previously blamed the abuses on subordinates -- has been indicted for tax evasion and in two human rights cases.
KIEV, Ukraine -- Holding candles, thousands massed on a fog-shrouded square Saturday to mourn 10 million Ukrainians who died in a famine orchestrated by Soviet leader Josef Stalin -- an ordeal they say should be recognized as genocide. The 1932-33 famine wiped out a third of Ukraine's population in a calamity known as Holodomor -- Death by Hunger. Stalin ordered villagers to meet grain quotas that typically exceeded crop yields. Officials then would seize all the grain and stop starving residents from leaving. Russia has warned the leaders of the former Soviet republic against using the term genocide, saying the event should not be "politicized." However, 10 nations, including the U.S., have agreed the famine should be described as genocide.
