New York mayor 'disturbed' by killing NEW York's mayor said it appeared 'excessive force' was used when an unarmed black man was gunned down by police in a hail of bullets on the eve of his wedding. Black community leaders called on Michael Bloomberg and police commissioner Ray Kelly to show 'moral outrage' as they met the officials after 
 death at the weekend. 
Mr Bloomberg said he was 'deeply disturbed' by the incident, which left two of the 23-year-old's friends injured, adding that it was 'unacceptable or inexplicable' to him how officers could have unleashed 50 shots.
He urged prosecutors to carry out their investigation as quickly as possible.
ISRAELI Prime Minister Ehud Olmert reached out to the Palestinians yesterday in one of his most conciliatory speeches yet, saying he was prepared to grant them a state, release funds and free prisoners if they choose the path of peace.
Olmert's remarks built on a day-old truce meant to end five months of violence in the Gaza Strip. But new rocket attacks by Palestinian militants threatened the latest truce.
'I hold out my hand in peace to our Palestinian neighbours in the hope that it won't be returned empty,' Olmert said. 
'We cannot change the past and we will not be able to bring back the victims on both sides of the borders,' he said.
'All that we can do today is stop additional tragedies.'
PAMELA ANDERSON has filed for divorce from husband Kid Rock less than four months after the couple married.
The star confirmed the news on her website, writing, 'Divorce. Yes, it's true. Unfortunately impossible.'
Her spokeswoman told People magazine, 'Pamela filed for divorce last week. It wasn't a happy Thanksgiving.'
Earlier this month it emerged Anderson had suffered a miscarriage in the early stages of pregnancy. The magazine said Anderson, 39, and musician Rock, 35, both filed divorce petitions yesterday citing irreconcilable differences. The couple held a string of ceremonies to mark their marriage, described by Anderson as 'the best most romantic wedding of all time'.
