 THE UN envoy to Iraq warned yesterday that the "carnage" and "blind acts of revenge" of the past few days were tearing Iraq apart, and urged the government to resolve its differences and stop the slide into civil war.  
Ashraf Qazi, Kofi Annan's special representative for Iraq, also urged Iraq's neighbours to help.   
Qazi said car bombs on Thursday that killed more than 200 people in a Shi'ite area, and revenge attacks on Sunni Arabs, were "tearing apart the very political and social fabric of Iraq."  
Meanwhile, a suicide car bomber attacked a checkpoint near Fallujah yesterday, killing three Iraqi civilians and a US soldier, and wounding nine civilians and an American service member.  
WRITING AN errant child out of your will or leaving an apartment to a secret mistress would become illegal under legislation now working its way through the European Union.  
The European Parliament has called for a common approach to the law on bequests and succession that would bring countries more closely into line with those such as France where most of a person's estate must be left to close relations.  
The legislation, approved by a majority in the parliament plenary, is considered necessary because growing numbers of EU residents now hold assets in other EU countries.  
ITALY'S president visited his native Naples yesterday and urged citizens to keep up the fight against the Mafia following a wave of violence that hit the city. "Never give up, always respond to violence with courage," Giorgio Napolitano said.  
Naples suffered an upsurge in violence late last month that resulted in at least nine killings in two weeks.  
MORE than 200,000 people marched through central Madrid yesterday to express support for victims of terrorism and protest against their government's proposed talks with the armed Basque separatist group ETA.  
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero's government said it would initiate talks with ETA after they called "a permanent cease-fire" in March.  
THE bid by David Cameron of the UK's Conservative Party to present himself as an alternative to Labour's Gordon Brown is winning over voters, according to an poll published today.  
The Tory leader is a more popular choice for prime minister than the Chancellor by 29 per cent to 19 per cent, researchers GfK NOP found for UTV's Sunday Edition.  
POLICE in New York shot three young men who had just left a bachelor party at a strip club early yesterday, killing one man on the day of his wedding. The shooting happened in Queens just after 4am. It was not clear what sparked the shooting, in which eight officers may have been involved. The dead man was named as 
 23.  
UK POLICE investigating a series of bizarre hair-cutting attacks in a seaside town said today they have arrested a man.  
Scores of women and witnesses have told police how their hair was cut while travelling on buses in Bournemouth, Dorset.  
Dorset Police had linked the series of attacks with the gruesome murder of Heather Barnett four years ago. The 48-year-old was found stabbed in her flat with someone else's neatly cut hair placed in her hands. But the police said the man was not arrested for the murder and was released on bail.
