In the days after the groom-to-be 
 died in a 50-shot fusillade fired at his car by five police officers, city officials have gone into detail about the Police Department's guidelines for shooting at a moving vehicle.
  The rules, in the department's Patrol Guide, are clear: ''Police officers shall not discharge their firearms at or from a moving vehicle unless deadly physical force is being used against the police officer or another person present, by means other than a moving vehicle.'' 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, by citing the guidelines, raised the possibility that the five officers who shot at Mr. Bell might have been in violation of the department's internal rule.
  ''You should know that it is not the policy of the Police Department, where a police officer can shoot at a car when the car is being used as a weapon,'' Mr. Bloomberg said Monday at a City Hall news conference. ''So at least, in that case, it would appear that the policies of the Police Department were broken.''
  Mr. Kelly said, ''As far as the policy of using deadly force against a vehicle -- we have a policy that prohibits that if the only deadly force that's being used against you is the vehicle itself.''
  But in a series of other recent confrontations in which police officers shot at drivers trying to run them down, police officials voiced unambiguous support for the officers involved. In two police shootings since last month -- one in which an officer fatally shot a driver -- the police said the shootings appeared reasonable, at least after preliminary investigations. 
  On Nov. 11, when a driver in Brooklyn was killed by the police, the officers saw him pointing a gun. In the other, in the Bronx, on Oct. 27, a loaded 9-millimeter gun was found in the driver's waistband and a second gun was in the car, according to the police.
  In Saturday's case, at least one police officer appeared to have believed the men in the car had a gun, but no gun was found.
  The three police shootings -- and the official statements about them -- underscore the nettlesome aspects of trying to set rules for unforeseeable, potentially deadly situations that unfold in seconds. To some, including many retired officers, the guidelines are confusing, even contradictory, particularly since an overarching statement in the Patrol Guide states that the primary function of all officers is ''to preserve human life.'' 
  Andrew Quinn, a lawyer who is general counsel to the Sergeants Benevolent Association, observed that the policy is more restrictive than the state's penal code. And a veteran prosecutor who has investigated previous police shootings suggested that the hard-and-fast rule is contrary to common sense.
  ''The Patrol Guide definitely states that, and it's hard to believe that it says it, that you can't use deadly force against a vehicle,'' said the prosecutor, who refused to be named.
  ''Every cop you say that to says, 'Oh, come on,' '' the prosecutor said. ''It seems at best to be selectively enforced.''
  Still, some defended the policy as written. John C. Cerar, a retired commander of the Police Department's firearms training section, said, ''Guidelines are guidelines, and they can be violated without breaking the rules.''
  When asked about the policy, Paul J. Browne, the department's chief spokesman, said, ''What we look at is the totality of the situation.''
  He added: ''We don't know the totality of this event yet.'' But of the two previous shootings, Mr. Browne said, ''There was more than the threat of the automobile alone involved.''
  Indeed, in the Oct. 27 shooting, Mr. Quinn said that Sgt. Edward Warren was not shooting at a car, but ''at a driver who was armed and who was about to shoot a cop.''
  ''It is idiotic,'' he said of the policy. ''There are absolutely circumstances where a car can be used as a deadly weapon, and the only way a cop can save his life or the life of a fellow officer or the life of a civilian is to use his handgun.''
  Mr. Kelly has been careful not to characterize the conduct of the five police officers involved in the shooting of Mr. Bell. None of those officers have been interviewed by officials.
  Talk of a gun, however, has colored the early reports of what happened.
  In a confrontation before the shooting outside a Queens strip club, Joseph Guzman, an acquaintance of Mr. Bell's, shouted, ''Yo, get my gun,'' the police said. Later, according to the account of a police lieutenant at the scene, a detective working undercover who was shadowing Mr. Bell and his acquaintances called the lieutenant just before the shooting to say the situation was getting ''hot,'' and, ''I think there's a gun.''
