Cops stepped up their raids on a Queens housing project yesterday in abid to find a man named Mo who they believe is the mysterious fourthpassenger who ran from a car at which police fired 50 bullets, killing agroom hours before his wedding.
Police arrested four people Wednesday at the Baisley Gardens project inSouth Jamaica and picked up at least three others on outstanding warrantsyesterday. The men were pressed to help identify the man who supposedlybolted from the scene in South Jamaica before police unloaded 50 shots,killing 

 23, and wounding two pals. 
All three of the shot men were unarmed, although the cops have said theythought someone in the car had a gun.
The target of the police search yesterday was a man the officers at thescene and other witnesses said ran from the car as the shooting began, andpossibly dumped a gun. Investigators know his nickname is Mo, and believehe lives in or around the Baisley houses, a law-enforcement source said.
Those swept up in the raids and later let go by police told The Post thatofficers repeatedly asked if they knew Mo, and what the word on the streetwas. In one case, a man was asked what one of the victims had told himafter the shooting.
"They questioned me about 

 They asked me about many differentnames. They asked, 'Do you know these people?' 'Is anybody talking?' 'Whatare you hearing?' " said Latoya Smith, 26, who was picked up with her twobrothers and a friend when police executed a search warrant on theirsecond-floor apartment.
"I felt like I was being harassed. I was scared to death," she said."There was a search warrant. They never said what it was. They had nocharges on me. They had nothing on me. They had to let me go."
But police held her two brothers, Stanley Smith, 23, and Timothy Smith,19, and their pal, Christopher Keys 18, on a gun charge. Officers found aloaded Smith & Wesson 9 mm handgun with its serial number filed off in ashoebox in a closet. There was no indication that the 9 mm is themysterious gun the cops are looking for.
The raids left the project shaken and angered its residents - one ofwhom, Trent Benefield, 23, was a victim of the police fusillade in front ofthe Kalua Cabaret strip club early Saturday morning. Bell had gone therewith friends to celebrate his bachelor party.
One of those swept up in the raids was Benefield's close friend ErskineWilliams Jr., whose father, Bishop Erskine Williams Sr., has been servingas the Benefield family spokesman. The younger Williams said cops nabbedhim at 6 a.m. on an old $25 ticket for loitering.
Once cops brought him to the 103rd Precinct station house, they nevermentioned the ticket again and demanded to know what Benefield had saidabout the night of the shooting, he charged.
"They asked me what did me and Trent talk about. 'People in the streetsare saying Trent told you everything.' He didn't tell me the story," hesaid. "They know I'm Trent's best friend; that's why they are harassingme."
The elder Williams said Benefield was distressed to hear that his friendswere being caught up in what he believes is a heavy-handed police effort tocover for their officers' excessive actions at the club.
"He's fed up. He's distressed about it and he's disgusted," Williamssaid.    
NYPD Deputy Commissioner Paul Browne said "there is an ongoinginvestigation led by the Internal Affairs Bureau and any informationobtained is turned over to the District Attorney's Office."
Bell had gone to the strip club with pals Benefield and Joseph Guzman onFriday night to celebrate his wedding the following day. The club was beingmonitored for prostitution by undercover cops.
At one point - not long before closing - an undercover officer inside theclub spotted a man dressed in black who he believed was carrying a gun. Hecalled his supervisor, who was in an unmarked car with other plainclothescops outside, and reported that the man may have had a gun.
Soon after, as the club closed, the undercover officer saw the man getinto an argument with Bell and his friends. The officer heard Guzman yell,"Yo, get my gun!" as his friends walked back to their car. The cop thendecided to break cover.
He charged toward the car with his gun drawn and badge displayed, butBell slammed on the gas pedal, striking the cop. The officer opened fire,which prompted his backup to fire as well as they rushed in to help.
Additional reporting by Ikimulisa Livingston
