It was a critical moment in the deadly sequence of events that unfolded outside a Queens strip club early Saturday: in a crowd in front of Club Kalua, Joseph Guzman, according to the police, shouted, ''Yo, get my gun.''
  An undercover officer working at the club trailed Mr. Guzman and his friends to their car a couple of blocks away -- giving up his undercover role and inserting himself into a potential arrest. 
The officer, according to the account a colleague said he gave, confronted the group with his own gun drawn. A moment later, 50 shots had been fired, killing one of Mr. Guzman's companions, 
 who was to be married later that day, and wounding Mr. Guzman and a third man, Trent Benefield. 
  Mr. Guzman, it turned out, had no gun in the car. Neither did anyone else. The officer's fear, if that was what motivated him, was unfounded.
  Since the shooting, little has emerged about Mr. Guzman, 31, and Mr. Benefield, 23, or their version of those events. Mr. Benefield, according to a law enforcement official, has said he thought Mr. Bell, 23, panicked when he saw the armed officer, mistaking him for a threat and prompting him to step on the accelerator, setting off the crash that escalated the confrontation.
  But as prosecutors and the police seek to learn the details of what happened, Mr. Guzman's actions, particularly as the police have portrayed them, seem destined for serious scrutiny.
  Mr. Guzman has had several run-ins with the law in his life, records show, but his family and friends insisted he later embarked on a different path.
  Mr. Guzman, it turns out, had completed a parole term on Nov. 4, a year after he was released from Bare Hill Correctional Facility in Malone, in upstate New York, where he served more than two years for selling cocaine to an undercover police officer on school grounds in Queens. He had earlier arrests dating back to 1992 that led to guilty pleas to disorderly conduct.
  Mr. Guzman's most serious crime was committed in 1995, records show. It was then that he was arrested and sent to state prison for a gunpoint robbery in Queens, during which he appears to have fired his weapon at the man he was robbing. He served nearly two years.
  Last Saturday, Mr. Guzman himself became a victim. Seated in the passenger seat of the car driven by Mr. Bell, he was shot at least 11 times by one or more of the five officers who fired their weapons in the 4 a.m. darkness, wounded from his neck to his feet.
  ''There is no evidence that they were doing anything wrong,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said Monday of Mr. Guzman, Mr. Bell and Mr. Benefield. ''Clearly they were victims.''
  Mr. Guzman remained in critical condition at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Jamaica under the fiercely protective watch of his oldest sister, Yolanda Guzman, 34. On Monday, Ms. Guzman refused to let investigators from the Police Department's internal affairs division into his hospital room, certain that they meant harm, according to a family friend.
  Outside the hospital room, Mr. Guzman's family and friends have sought to paint a softer portrait of him -- as a father, a brother, a soon-to-be husband.. 
  Charles Aziz Bilal, who said he had known Mr. Guzman for 20 years, said Mr. Guzman had been trying to turn his life around since his last stay in prison. 
  He and other friends say Mr. Guzman's sister has acted as a surrogate mother to Mr. Guzman ever since their mother, Ruby Mae, and father, Joseph Anthony, died within a year of each other, she of breast cancer in August 1992 and he of a stroke in May of the following year, when Mr. Guzman was 17. A second sister, Ruby Guzman, was traveling from Virginia yesterday to be at her brother's side.
  Two months after his mother died, Mr. Guzman was arrested for assault, but pleaded to a lesser charge, disorderly conduct. From then on, he was in and out of jail, and has served a total of 5 years and 7 months in jails or prisons.
  But Mr. Bilal said Mr. Guzman, who worked as a bricklayer, tried to straighten himself out after his last release from prison in October 2005.
  "He became a good role model for his kids,'' said Mr. Bilal. For all his run-ins with the law as a teenager and adult, Mr. Bilal said Mr. Guzman had been a happy-go-lucky child, with an enduring fascination with cutting hair. During his boyhood in South Jamaica, he routinely set up his own little barbershop, Mr. Bilal said, and cut the neighborhood kids' hair free with one of his most treasured possessions: haircutting clippers.
  Mr. Guzman still cuts people's hair, and nurtured a passion for basketball, too. He grew into a muscular teen and finally a large and stocky man. He fell in love with a woman named Eboni Browning, now his fiancee, the mother of his two young sons. Ms. Browning appeared briefly in front of the hospital on Saturday but burst into tears when she was asked questions by reporters.
  It was not clear how Mr. Guzman and Mr. Bell met. Several of Mr. Bell's friends said that, unlike Mr. Benefield, they did not know Mr. Guzman very well. One of Mr. Bell's close friends, Mike Jones, 23, said he had only seen Mr. Guzman with Mr. Bell once or twice, and only in recent weeks.
  It was also unclear whether Mr. Guzman was to attend Mr. Bell's wedding, even though he was part of the bachelor party celebration and was with him until the violent end.
