The Supreme Court hears arguments Wednesday in a case that could determine whether the Bush administration must change course in how it deals with the threat of global warming. A dozen states as well as environmental groups and large cities are trying to convince the court that the Environmental Protection Agency must regulate, as a matter of public health, the amount of carbon dioxide that comes from vehicles. Carbon dioxide is produced when fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas are burned. It is the principal ``greenhouse'' gas that many scientists believe is flowing into the atmosphere at an unprecedented rate, leading to a warming of the earth and widespread ecological changes. 
A man fatally shot his friend with a high-powered rifle in a dispute over a $20 bet on the annual South Carolina-Clemson college football game, authorities said Sunday. James Walter Quick, 42, has been charged with murder in the shooting of Richard Allen Johnson, 43, authorities said. Johnson died from a shot to the chest, according to a preliminary autopsy Sunday.
A motorcycle officer injured last week while escorting President Bush in the islands died Sunday, police said. Steve Favela, 30, and two other officers crashed their cycles as the presidential motorcade was traveling across Hickam Air Force Base next to Pearl Harbor to meet troops for breakfast Tuesday. The other officers were treated at The Queen's Medical Center and released. Favela, an eight-year veteran of the Honolulu Police Department and father of four, had suffered internal injuries and had been listed in critical condition at the medical center.
An angry crowd demanded Sunday to know why police officers killed an unarmed man on the day of his wedding, firing dozens of shots that also wounded two of the man's friends. Some called for the ouster of the city's police commissioner. At a vigil and rally the day after 23-year-old 
 was supposed to have married the mother of his two young children, a crowd led by the Rev. Al Sharpton shouted ``No justice, no peace.'' At one point, the crowd of a few hundred counted off to 50, the number of rounds fired.
Blast evacuees home
Six families moved back into their houses Sunday after a pre-dawn chemical plant explosion four days earlier drove them and hundreds of other residents from their homes. The families were allowed to return after inspectors checked their homes to make sure utility connections and chimneys were intact and safe.
Compiled from wire reports.
