Daryl Khan, Michelle O'Donnell and William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting.
*
Mayor Michael Bloomberg convened an extraordinary meeting of black religious leaders and elected officials at City Hall to calm frayed tempers over the fatal police shooting of an unarmed black man, calling the circumstances ''inexplicable'' and ''unacceptable.''
''It sounds to me like excessive force was used,'' the mayor said Monday of the conduct of the officers, who fired 50 shots outside a nightclub in the borough of Queens early Saturday, killing 
 23, hours before he was to be wed, and injuring two others. ''I can tell you that it is to me unacceptable or inexplicable how you can have 50-odd shots fired.''
Bloomberg made the remarks after meeting with some of the city's most influential black politicians and community leaders, including Representative Charles Rangel, the Reverend Al Sharpton and dozens of others.
The mayor's decision to meet with Sharpton and other black leaders was a stark turnabout from the approach of Bloomberg's predecessor, Rudolph Giuliani, who did not reach out to black leaders in the immediate aftermath of the fatal 1999 shooting of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant who died in a hail of 41 police bullets.
Bloomberg's blunt assessment of events still under investigation was striking, although he took pains to point out that the facts were not all in, saying several times that he did not yet know what happened in the shooting, but that he expected that a grand jury would be impaneled by the Queens district attorney, Richard Brown.
In a move that suggests the officers feel their actions were justified, the lawyer representing the men said he had contacted Brown's office and offered to have the officers speak to prosecutors and appear before a grand jury voluntarily without immunity. Philip Karasyk, who is a lawyer for the Detectives' Endowment Association, said, ''We feel confident that once all of the facts and circumstances of this tragic incident are known, then our detectives will be exonerated.''
''This was a tragedy, but not a crime,'' he added.
Brown said that he intended to convene a grand jury to hear evidence in the case.
Participants at the private meeting at City Hall, which included the police commissioner, Raymond Kelly, and several high-ranking Bloomberg aides, described the discussions as frequently heated. Those more critical of the administration's response to the shooting, including Sharpton and a city councilman, Charles Barron of Brooklyn, sat on the opposite side of the table.
Some policies appear to have been violated in the shooting, which occurred when, according to the police, undercover officers fired 50 bullets at Bell's car after he drove into one of the officers and an unmarked police van.
The shooting happened as the police were undercover in the club, Club Kalua, to investigate reports of prostitution and drug dealing.
There was a dispute outside between two groups of men, and one group of three or four left. One undercover officer followed them, believing they might have been going to get a gun before returning to the club.
In the officers' version of events, the undercover officer confronted the men in Bell's silver Nissan Altima, and they tried to run him over, prompting the fusillade from him and his backups.
Some of the leaders expressed dismay over Kelly's revelation that one of the undercover officers had had two beers in the course of the operation inside the nightclub, but was not given a breath analyzer test. Kelly said that undercover officers are allowed the two drinks and are not normally tested for intoxication. He said they were deemed fit for duty by their superior.
