Everything from the number of shell casings around the car to the absence of a gun inside it to the witness accounts suggests the police officers who shot three unarmed young men early Saturday morning did so in the mistaken and panicked belief they were in mortal danger. The same facts and statements suggest the three young men in the car who repeatedly tried to crash past an unmarked police van did so in their own mistaken and panicked belief they were in mortal danger. One was climbing into the back of the car when he saw a tall figure in street attire approach in the early morning darkness.
"Yo, my man, come here, my man, let me holler at you," the figure was heard to call out. 
The tall figure was holding something black by his side.
"He's got a gat! He's got a gat! Be out! Be out!" the young man climbing into the car shouted.
The figure was an undercover cop, but by one witness account neither he nor his comrades announced themselves as police officers until after 
 tried in vain to drive away and six to 10 shots were fired.
"That's when somebody started shouting, 'Police! Police! Put your hands out! Put your hands out!'" recalls witness China Flores.
The shooting only intensified.
"That's when all hell broke loose," Flores says.
One cop fired 31 times, but regardless of how he is ultimately judged by the law, a harsher public judgment should be reserved for the senior commander at the scene. This lieutenant is said to have been so certain he was being fired upon he ducked under the dashboard of his undercover vehicle while the cops he was supposed to supervise fired a total of 50 rounds.
Flores says a fourth young man who was about to join the three in the Altima dashed off, making a cell phone call on the next block. Flores also says that one of the three in the car, Trent Benefield, staggered out holding his right upper leg.
"He's shouting, 'Stop shooting at me! Stop shooting at me!'" Flores reports.
Flores says a shorter plainclothes cop kept firing at Benefield after he hit the pavement.
"[The cop] is telling him, 'Lay down! Lay down!'" Flores recalls. "The guy's already on the floor. He's shot."
Only after the last shot was fired did Flores see the tall figure produce a badge and affix it to his jacket. Thus ended a chain of events Flores had seen begin around the corner in the Kalua Cabaret a short time before, when Bell, Benefield and Joey Guzman got into a verbal argument with two Guyanese men.
Flores says a would-be gangster known as J-Rock sought to get involved even though he did not know either party. J-Rock supposedly intimated he had a gun, threatening to "pop off." The situation was clearly not what Bell had in mind for his bachelor party.
"He said, 'Let's be out. I'm getting married. I don't need this,'" Flores recalls.
As Bell and his friends departed, the Guyanese men followed and more words were exchanged in the foyer. The bouncer rose from his stool and broke it up, ordering them into the street.
By then, Flores was outside having a cigarette as they exited. He says Guzman raised a hand toward one of the Guyanese men with the thumb upraised, the index finger extended in either the suggestion of a gun or just a hip-hop gesture that often accompanies outsized threats.
"I'm going to f--k him up!" Guzman supposedly said.
Benefield echoed Bell's sentiment that the time had come to "be out" and the friends headed down to Liverpool St. Flores noticed they were tailed by a tall figure in a quilted jacket, jeans and tan Timberland boots who likely witnessed Guzman's gesture. Flores followed, watching the tall figure get on a cell phone, then climb into a Toyota Camry that rolled up 94th Ave.
The Camry turned onto Liverpool St. Flores did so in time to see the tall figure approach Bell and the others as they climbed into a parked Altima.
Then Flores heard Benefield shout, "He's got a gat!" A boast in a club, or a hand gesture, apparently made the cops fear the same as the Altima tried to flee.
"They must have got scared," Flores says. "They thought the guys in the car had a gun."
And the safest big city in America proved still so fearful of guns that cops who set out that night to keep us safe ended up killing an unarmed young man on his wedding day.
mdaly@nydailynews.com
