Everyone seems to agree somebody shouted a warning about a gun moments before the cops fired 50 shots at a trio of unarmed young men in a car.
The question is who shouted. A civilian witness named China Flores - who admits to a long history with the law - insists it was one of the three young men who called out, "He's got a gat! He's got a gat!" to his friends. The young man, Trent Benefield, had seen a tall figure approach, holding something black at his side.
The tall figure was an undercover cop, and a published account citing police sources maintains that he was the one who shouted, "He's got a gun! He's got a gun!" 
But the young men did not have a gun. The figure who approached them did. And Benefield would later say he and his two friends had no idea the man was an undercover police officer.
If Benefield was indeed the one who shouted, there remains the possibility that the other cops thought the warning had come from the undercover approaching the car. The cops would not have expected the three young men in the car to be the ones to call out that somebody had a gun.
After all, the cops had tailed the three young men from the Kalua Cabaret in Jamaica, Queens, suspecting they had a gun. The cops may well have mistaken the sudden shout about a gun to be confirmation from their comrade that the suspects were indeed armed.
At the same time, by Flores' account, the shouted warning prompted the driver of the young men's car to speed away from the curb and repeatedly crash into an undercover vehicle in an attempt to flee.
A further possibility here arises, a twist of tragic irony: Perhaps the same warning that caused the young men to flee also caused the cops to fire.
The detectives union insists the undercover cop was wearing his shield around his neck and ordered the occupants of the vehicle to display their hands before the first shot was fired.
Flores says the undercover produced his shield only after the last shot was fired. Flores maintains that six to 10 shots had been fired before the undercover shouted, "Police! Put your hands out!"
The truth might be much easier to establish had the cops employed the "Kel" transmitter they had been provided so they could record their undercover interactions. The lieutenant chose to leave the admittedly troublesome device at the office and communicate instead via cell phone.
What is certain is that all 50 shots were fired by the police. One struck a first-floor window of a frame house, punching a neat hole in the glass that was covered by a sheet of white paper yesterday.
Three more bullets had struck a blue Mitsubishi Galant that was still parked at the curb. One of these three had torn a hole by the driver's side door. A second had struck the right rear wheel, chipping the hubcap.
The third had struck the rear-wing window and pierced the driver's headrest, deflecting slightly off one of the metal supports. The slug then hit the bottom of the windshield with enough force to crack it, but not break through.
A police investigator must have retrieved the spent bullet from the dashboard, on which lay fragments of foam from inside the headrest. Bullets sometimes cause fragments of tissue and bone to burst from a wound in just this way.
In the center of the street glinted bits of glass and shards of chrome from when the young men's Altima collided repeatedly with the police vehicle. More broken glass lay by the dented rolldown gate the Altima struck when it backed up in an effort to get away.
Beside the gate somebody had placed a dozen white candles and a computer printout of a photograph that showed 
 with his fiance and their 3-year-old daughter.
Such shrines to the fallen innocent are all too common at shooting scenes. They are usually cause to give thanks for the police officers who routinely place themselves in the gravest danger to take loaded guns off the street. Our cops do so literally thousands of times a year without firing a shot.
But this time, the police were the shooters. And they had fired 50 shots after only a warning about a gun that was either in an undercover cop's imagination or in his hand, depending on who you believe did the shouting.
mdaly@nydailynews.com
