INTERNATIONAL A3-19Iraqi Leader's Abilities Questioned by Bush AideA classified memorandum by President Bush's national security adviser expressed serious doubts about whether Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki had the capacity to control the sectarian violence in Iraq and recommended that the United States take new steps to strengthen the Iraqi leader's position.  A1Pope Supports Turkish Bid 
Pope Benedict XVI arrived in Turkey armed with a gesture of goodwill aimed at blunting Muslim anger toward him: he supported Turkey's long-stalled desire to join the European Union, reversing a statement he made two years ago.  A1C.I.A. Victim Seeks RedressA lawyer for a German man who was abducted while on vacation in Macedonia and tortured while in C.I.A. custody in Afghanistan urged a federal appeals court to reinstate his lawsuit against the agency, which had been dismissed for national security reasons.  A15Dead Spy's Ally Finds RadiationBoris A. Berezovsky, an exiled Russian billionaire and fierce opponent of the Kremlin, confirmed that the police found radioactive traces in his office after the death last week of his close associate, a spy who was poisoned by radiation.  A10NATIONAL A20-26Debate on Why Blacks Lag At Major Law FirmsMinority lawyers are well represented among new associates at the most prestigious law firms because of vigorous recruiting and pressure from corporate clients, a new study shows. But they are less likely to stay at the firms or to make partner than their white counterparts.  A1Lawmaker Won't Be Panel HeadRepresentative Nancy Pelosi announced that she would not award the chairmanship of the House Intelligence Committee to Representative Alcee L. Hastings of Florida.  A26Arson Ruled Out in MissouriInvestigators believe they have found the cause of the fire that killed 10 people in a group home for the disabled and mentally ill in Missouri and have largely ruled out arson, a state investigator said.  A20Court Reviews Global WarmingThe Supreme Court will for the first time hear oral arguments on the questions of whether the federal government is authorized and obligated to take action to alleviate global warming.  A228 Charged in Boot Camp DeathSeven guards and a nurse have been charged with aggravated manslaughter in the January death of a 14-year-old boy at a boot camp in the Florida Panhandle, prosecutors announced.  A24NEW YORK/REGION B1-6Report Urges Big Changes In Hospital IndustryRecommendations for a sweeping overhaul of the New York State hospital industry would effectively eliminate 20 or more hospitals and thousands of jobs, and force dozens of other hospitals to shrink, merge or take on new roles.  A1Mayor Visits Victim's FamilyMayor Michael R. Bloomberg went to Queens to meet the parents and fiancee of 
 the 23-year-old man killed in a hail of police bullets hours before his wedding.  B6BUSINESS DAY C1-12Pfizer to Lay Off SalespeoplePfizer, the world's largest drug company, said that it would lay off almost 2,400 sales representatives and managers, a fifth of its American sales force, in what may signal an industry retrenching.  C1Business Digest C2OBITUARIES A27Dave CockrumAn illustrator who in the mid-1970s helped invent a dynamic new look and new characters for the moribund X-Men comics, he was 63.  A27EDITORIAL A28-29Editorials: Iraq and the facts of life; reordering New York's health care; Benedict goes to Turkey; protecting reporters' phone records.Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.Crossword   E2TV Listings   E9Weather   D7
