The Revs. Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton led relatives and community members on an angry and emotional visit yesterday morning to the Queens street where 

 an unarmed 23-year-old black man, was shot to death in a hail of police bullets early Saturday morning.
  As the two civil rights leaders led their group, police officers continued searching the site for evidence yesterday, and investigators were seeking additional witnesses. 
The police were trying to locate a man who may have been in Mr. Bell's car on Saturday morning and another who witnesses say was at the heart of arguments outside Club Kalua, a cabaret, with groups that included Mr. Bell. That man was last seen dressed in black and standing in front of a sport utility vehicle with silver wheels in the moments before the shooting. It is unclear what role, if any, he played, the police said.
  The police described the man who may have been in Mr. Bell's car as being last seen wearing a beige jacket and running away from the shooting onto 95th Avenue, the police said.
  As investigators working on the case seek the two men, the police are asking everyone arrested in the city whether they have any information about the case.
  The case has attracted national attention, a fact underscored by the arrival of Mr. Jackson and by a call from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to Bruce S. Gordon, president and chief executive of the N.A.A.C.P., which wants the Justice Department to review whether the shooting violated federal civil rights laws. Mr. Jackson echoed that sentiment yesterday. 
  Mr. Gordon said the mayor, who has made fighting poverty a priority of his second term, had expressed interest in improving education and job opportunities for young black men. ''I at least find his approach to be refreshing,'' Mr. Gordon said, ''but in no way am I comforted, because this incident just points out the disparities and abuses in the system that have to be changed.''
  On Monday the mayor called the shooting ''excessive,'' a characterization that Gov. George E. Pataki agreed with. 
  ''Obviously, 50 bullets fired into or at an unarmed individual in New York is excessive force,'' Mr. Pataki said yesterday in a news conference broadcast by satellite from Kuwait, ''but the appropriate response to that is something that I think the investigation of the mayor and the police commissioner will reveal.''
  Mr. Sharpton hinted yesterday that he might call for a shopping boycott to protest the shooting. 
  Shortly before 9 a.m., Mr. Sharpton and Mr. Jackson led elected officials and clergy members to the spot in Jamaica, Queens, where five officers fired 50 shots at Mr. Bell's car during a confrontation in which he drove into one of the officers and an unmarked police van. Two friends of Mr. Bell, Trent Benefield, 23, and Joseph Guzman, 31, were also in the car and were seriously wounded. 
  On Liverpool Street, at an impromptu sidewalk memorial of white carnations, red roses, candles and photographs taped to a brick wall, Mr. Bell's aunt, the Rev. Diane Shepherd-Oliver, a minister at the New Life Temple of Praise in Syracuse, called for God's help. ''Pray for the policemen and the other individuals who are injured,'' she said. 
  Mr. Bell's parents, William and Valerie, and his fiancee, Nicole Paultre, whom he was to wed the day he was killed, were among those in the group. 
  ''We appeal to people: Don't do anything disruptive or in any way contrary to the memory of 

'' Mr. Sharpton said. ''We do not want the world to see him as anything other than what he was. He was not violent. He was not a thug. He was not in the street. Don't use your anger to distort who he was.'' 
  Mr. Jackson said of the shooting: ''This is a symbol, not an aberration. Our criminal justice system has broken down for black Americans and the young black males.''
  Mr. Guzman's sister, Yolanda, who has been at his bedside at Mary Immaculate Hospital, said of her brother, whom she helped raise: ''He's critical. He cannot talk. He has 19 holes in him.'' 
  Mr. Guzman's companion, Ebony Browning, squeezed the hand of their son, Juan, 6, and lighted a candle and taped up a photo of Mr. Guzman. ''Pray for my child and pray for my husband, too,'' she said.
