The Revs. Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson joined about two dozen grievingfamily and friends yesterday for a memorial at the spot where cops unloaded50 bullets at three men leaving a bachelor party at a Queens club, killingthe groom.  
Nicole Paultre, the fiance of slain 

 23, stood silently,dressed all in black, her eyes concealed behind sunglasses and tearsstreaking down her cheeks. 
Mourners lit votive candles, prayed and hung angry signs of protestagainst police brutality across the street from where bullet holes stillremained in parked cars. One sign read, "Off the pigs who shoot our kids." 
"We come this morning with the family in their hour of grief," saidSharpton, standing near a makeshift altar of flowers and candles near theKalua Cabaret strip club in Jamaica. "We're all family now. Not a blackfamily, not a white family, not a Latino family - a human family." 
"These days are days of mourning. We appeal to the people, don't doanything disruptive or anything contrary to the memory of 

" 
Bell's aunt, Diane Shepherd-Oliver, prayed for his soul with an emotionalwail. "I know my nephew is with you, oh, Lord," she said. "I know Sean isin a better place."  
Later, she said the pain of losing him was "beyond words," and what stillechoes through her mind is the haunting "screech" her sister Valerie -Sean's mother - made over the phone when she told her about the tragedy. 
The activists once again called for a thorough investigation of theshooting, which they called a civil-rights violation. A funeral service isscheduled for tomorrow. 
"Business will not go on as usual until we get justice for 

"Sharpton said. "We will be shopping for justice while people go shoppingfor the holidays. There is going to be a big shopping spree for justice." 
He said there will be a "mass movement" after the funeral, but refused toelaborate. 
Jackson linked the shooting to the cases of Haitian immigrant AbnerLouima, who was sodomized in a Brooklyn police station in 1997; AmadouDiallo, the unarmed Guinean immigrant who died in a hail of police gunfirein The Bronx in 1999; and Kathryn Johnston, 88, who was killed by cops inAtlanta a week ago. 
"So I say to the families here today, don't let even this break yourspirit. Don't be silent, don't betray justice with silence," said Jackson. 
"Our criminal-justice system has broken down for black Americans andyoung black males. We've marched and march, bled too profusely and died tooyoung. We must draw a line in the sand and fight back." 
There are plans for another rally at the strip club on Saturday. 
New York Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles Schumer put out a jointstatement yesterday saying: "This tragedy has deeply saddened New Yorkers -and all Americans. It is of utmost importance that the investigatingauthorities, led by the Queens district attorney, conduct an aggressive,impartial investigation to ferret out the facts." 
Additional reporting by Kenneth Lovett, Stefanie Cohen and Heidi Singer
