A round-up of today's other world news in brief
EU fails to settle Turkey, Cyprus row
TAMPERE - EU president Finland failed to achieve a breakthrough in its push to resolve a row between Turkey and Cyprus that threatens to derail Ankara's bid for membership. 
Finland said the two sides were too far apart for a realistic prospect of success during its term as president of the EU, which ends on December 31st.
"Unfortunately, we have come to the conclusion that at this stage circumstances do not permit that an agreement could be reached during the Finnish presidency," foreign minister Erkki Tuomioja said after separate meetings with the foreign ministers of Turkey and Cyprus.
Mayor 'disturbed' by NY shooting
NEW YORK - New York's mayor, Michael Bloomberg, yesterday admitted it appeared "excessive force" was used when a young groom was gunned down by police in a hail of bullets on his wedding day.
Mr Bloomberg said he was "deeply disturbed" by the incident, which left 
 (23) dead and two of his friends injured, adding that it was "unacceptable or inexplicable" to him how officers could have fired 50 shots. He said he had urged prosecutors to carry out their investigation as quickly as possible and expected a grand jury to begin considering if charges should be brought. - (PA)
Berlusconi to remain in hospital
ROME - Silvio Berlusconi was ordered to stay in hospital for at least another two days yesterday after fainting at a weekend political rally, fuelling speculation that he may be set to bow out of frontline politics. - (Reuters)
Pinochet under house arrest
SANTIAGO - Former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet was placed under house arrest yesterday for the murder of two bodyguards of former president Salvador Allende in 1973, a court source said.
Chilean judge Victor Montiglio had ordered Pinochet's arrest as part of an inquiry into the case, the source said. - (Reuters)
Condoleezza Rice adviser resigns
WASHINGTON - Philip Zelikow, one of US secretary of state Condoleezza Rice's closest advisers on Iraq and the Middle East, will quit his post to return to university teaching, a state department official said yesterday.
In his resignation letter Mr Zelikow said "family and professional concerns" led to his decision. - (Reuters)
Bluefin tuna 'set for extinction'
ROME - Atlantic bluefin tuna, the fish prized by sushi lovers, are headed for extinction in the Mediterranean because governments failed to set rigorous conservation standards, environment- alists said yesterday after a 10-day meeting of the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas in Dubrovnik, Croatia. - (Reuters)
