As one of 10 brothers and sisters, University of Miami coach Frank Haith is uncle to "a lot of nephews and nieces."
But 

 the son of Haith's older brother, William, always stood out.
"You see all the pictures of him and he does look just like me," Haith said Thursday. "We had a special bond because of that."
That bond was broken early Saturday morning when Bell, 23, was shot and killed in the New York borough of Queens after undercover officers opened fire on his car. A hail of bullets hit Bell and two passengers, who both survived. 
The case has brought nationwide attention, and New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg has aksed for a Justice Department investigation.
Bell, who was unarmed, was killed after attending his own bachelor party and hours before he was scheduled to marry the mother of his two children.
Haith said Bell was planning to go into the music business and was beginning to make plans for his future.
"In the process, he really just came to his senses and he decided to get married, which was a positive," Haith said. "Everybody was so happy for him that he made that decision. He was getting ready to start a new chapter in his life. That's why it's sad, because we felt Sean had really figured out what he wanted to do with his life."
Haith said he received a phone call early Saturday from his sister, who told him of the shooting. Haith attended the Hurricanes' shoot-around that morning and coached UM to a 98-66 rout of Lafayette at the BankUnited Center on Saturday night before informing his staff, as well as Athletic Director Paul Dee and UM President Donna Shalala, about the tragedy.
Haith waited until after Tuesday's loss at Northwestern before he talked to UM players about his nephew's death.
"It's been hard, but we're one family," guard Jack McClinton said.
"We all feel his pain."
Haith said Bell was a frequent visitor to his home. Last summer, Bell spent a couple of days with the coach and his family.
Haith said Bell was a "really good baseball player" who had a chance to play in college but chose not to. Bell considered going to junior college, then began talking about a music career during a summer visit to his uncle's house.
"He was a great kid, but he was one of those guys that wanted to do a little bit of everything," Haith said.
When told recently that Bell was getting married, Haith said he called his brother and asked, "Why is he getting married so soon? I mean it's November and I can't come. I have a game that day."
William Bell, Sean's father, responded by saying: "That's what Sean wanted. He just wanted to get married right now."
Asked if he was angry at the circumstances surrounding his nephew's death, Haith said: "No, I'm not angry. I'm strong in my faith. Things like this, you put in God's hands and you know things happen for a reason."
Haith was scheduled to fly Thursday night to New York and will attend Bell's funeral today. He expects to return to Miami tonight and begin preparations for Sunday's home ACC opener against Georgia Tech.
Haith said that coaching has provided a welcome relief during what has been "a tough week."
"Basketball has been very good for me," Haith said. "It's been soothing for me to stay involved -- with our team and being with my staff and having people around."
jorge_milian@pbpost.com
