HIS FACE covered by an oxygen mask, his bullet-ridden body confined to a hospital bed, a survivor of the 50-shot police barrage that felled 

 on his wedding day claimed yesterday that the cops "tried to kill me."
Gasping as he made his first public statement since the shooting, Joseph Guzman demanded justice for his slain pal as relatives and well-wishers streamed through his room. 
"They killed Sean," he said. "Y'all gotta do something. We didn't have nothing, we didn't have nothing."
Guzman's message was conveyed by the Rev. Al Sharpton, who along with the Rev. Jesse Jackson visited Guzman and the other wounded man, Trent Benefield.
The visit came as police sources revealed last night that they have identified a long-sought fourth man who walked to Bell's car.
Two witnesses picked the man out of two separate photo lineups. He is not under arrest but is being sought. Police believe the mystery man - who had been with Bell and his pals inside the Queens strip bar before the shooting - may have run off with a weapon. So far, no gun has been recovered.
And detectives have not yet questioned Guzman. When several tried to get into his room on Monday, his sister Yolanda Guzman chased them out.
"Saturday he was unconscious, handcuffed," Sharpton said outside Mary Immaculate Hospital in Queens. "Yesterday he was groggy. Today for the first time he spoke."
But Sharpton said Guzman, 31, was "very clear" about what he was saying.
"Even at one point, when we pulled back from the bed after having prayed, he called us back and said, 'They tried to kill us, they tried to kill us,' " Sharpton said. "Obviously he is just coming into his own consciousness and pleading for help. We promised him we would do what has to be done to get justice."
Calling Guzman a "victim witness," Jackson said the NYPD needs to act with one eye on its history of brutal, sometimes deadly attacks on unarmed blacks.
"Whether it's an Abner Louima, [Amadou] Diallo, or 

 those who are held to a higher standard must pay a higher price when they, in fact, break the law they are paid to uphold," he said.
Guzman also knows something about breaking the law. His record includes nine arrests for drug offenses. But he had not been collared since a felony drug charge in 2002. He pleaded guilty in that case and recently completed parole.
Whether the five cops who fired on the trio broke any laws is the subject of an ongoing probe by police and the Queens district attorney's office that is being monitored by the Justice Department.
Prosecutors are awaiting a toxicology report on Bell to see if he was under the influence of drugs or alcohol at the time of the shooting. They also are wading through 911 tapes and police radio transmissions - as well as crime-scene evidence and the officers' personnel records - as they prepare their case.
The officers - two black, two white and one dark-skinned Hispanic - have been placed on paid leave and told to give up their guns.
Mayor Bloomberg said earlier it appeared the officers used "excessive force" and yesterday both the outgoing - and incoming - governors agreed.
Gov. Pataki called what happened to Bell "one of those tragedies that breaks your heart."
"Obviously 50 bullets fired into, or at, an unarmed individual in New York is excessive force," he said from Kuwait. "But the appropriate response to that is something I think the investigation of the mayor and the police commissioner will reveal."
"This terrible tragedy deserves to be fully investigated," Governor-elect Eliot Spitzer said to El Diario La Prensa.
Guzman was hit 11 times and relatives said he remains in critical condition.
"It's extremely hard on the body when you have 19 holes," Guzman's pregnant fiance, Eboni Browning, said as she held their 6-year-old son, Juwan. "Things we value and take for granted, he can't do."
Benefield, 23, was hit three times and underwent surgery yesterday to remove two bullets from his body. "He looked nervous before going under the knife," said his lawyer, Kareem Vessup.
Still wearing her engagement ring, Nicole Paultre, Bell's fiance, also visited her beloved's wounded buddies but left without comment.
Guzman and Benefield had taken Bell to the Kalua Cabaret in Jamaica, Queens, for a bachelor bash - unaware that undercover cops probing prostitution and drugs were there.
Before they left at 4 a.m., Bell had an angry exchange with another patron. And one of the undercovers who had been inside the club followed them to Bell's car because he heard Guzman say he was going to get a gun, police said.
Philip Karasyk, who represents the Brooklyn-born undercover detective who fired the first shot, said his client identified himself and held his fire even after Bell clipped him with his Nissan Altima. But when the man sitting in the passenger seat - whom police sources identified as Guzman - reached into his waistband, the officer fired the first of 11 rounds at the men, he said.
Then the other cops, who had never fired their guns on the job before, joined in. Detective Mike Oliver, who fired 31 of the shots, even reloaded.
Surveying the crime scene, Guzman's sister said the cops' story just doesn't add up. "A dog doesn't deserve to die like that," Yolanda Guzman said.
csiemaszko@nydailynews.com
