The NYPD lieutenant who led the police task force that blew away an unarmed bridegroom is a touchy-feely leader who flosses his teeth obsessively - and got bounced from his previous assignment because he put his family before the job, fellow cops told the Daily News.
"He actually hugs us," one officer said of Lt. Gary Napoli. "What boss does that?" 
Napoli, who ducked for cover when the shooting erupted early Saturday in Queens, is now in the middle of a crisis that could derail his career.
As the investigation into the tragic shooting that left 23-year-old 
 dead and two other men wounded gains steam, portraits of Napoli and the other cops involved are emerging.
Married with two kids, Napoli, 48, coaches his daughter's Westchester soccer team and is devoted to his elderly parents.
It was that devotion that resulted in Napoli being ousted from his assignment with Manhattan North Narcotics, cops say.
Napoli was transferred to the club enforcement unit soon after he took a vacation day to visit his elderly parents on the day he was supposed to attend a mandatory Compstat meeting, sources said.
The 23-year veteran, who revs himself up by downing a cocktail of Red Bull energy drink and coffee, is known as a quirky commander who calls detectives "Doctor" and "Laddie." Here is a look at the team he was leading:
Detective Mike Oliver
Tall and handsome, the 35-year-old vice cop logged more than 600 arrests during his 12-year career. But he had never shot his gun on the job until he fired 31 times early Saturday.
He is a regular at Chelsea's Bungalow 8 club where he was known as "Undercover Mike," according to Radar Online.
When Oliver was three months out of the academy, he and another rookie were assigned to a Manhattan foot post. Hearing shots, they raced to the scene and found two men in a gunfight. The cops arrested the suspects without firing a shot.
"It shows the control he had even as a rookie, to draw his gun and handle a threat, make the arrests without firing," Detectives' Endowment Association President Michael Palladino said. "That's not a cowboy."
Officer Mike Carey
Carey, who fired three times during the deadly shooting, has been a cop for five years. He is known as a go-getter.
A former Midtown South supervisor called the 26-year-old "Aces" because he accepted any assignment and did his job well. "One of the best rookies I've seen in years," the boss said.
Carey, who is white, has made 100 arrests. Married to another cop, he recently became a dad.
The undercover detective
The Daily News is withholding the 28-year-old's name to protect his safety. Brooklyn-born, the cop is Haitian and his mother Mexican. He still lives with his mom.
He fired the opening salvo early Saturday, shooting 11 times. Since becoming a cop five years ago, he has notched 60 arrests. He also has one citation for meritorious police duty.
Detective
Mark Cooper
A Brooklyn narcotics cop with 17 years on the job, Cooper fired four times. He is black.
Detective
Paul Hedley
A nine-year veteran, Hedley, 35, fired once. The father of two lives with his police officer wife on Staten Island. He served in Iraq for a year before returning home in 2005.
He told a neighbor, Noreen Urciuoli, on Monday, "I'm not going to be around for a few days."
"He's a really affable guy," she said. "We definitely like him."
Unidentified undercover
female detective
She was with the other undercover in the strip club. She did not fire. She is black.
enaspretto@nydailynews.com
