FIRST thing Monday morning, Richard A. Brown, the bulldog-ish Queens district attorney conducting the grand jury investigation of Saturday's fatal, predawn confrontation between a multiracial squad of undercover officers and a carload of black men out on the town for a bachelor party, convened his senior staff at his Queens Boulevard headquarters. The mood was tense. Still is.
  What he and his prosecutorial team had to parse: a 50-shot barrage of bullets from five officers that killed the prospective bridegroom, 
 put two of his friends in the hospital, mobilized minority activists like the Rev. Al Sharpton and prompted Michael R. Bloomberg, the city's perturbed mayor, to call the shooting ''unacceptable'' and ''inexplicable.'' Opinionated words from Mr. Mayor. 
It is up to Mr. Brown to do the unopinionated explaining: ''I don't see this as being a hate crime or a racially motivated crime in any sense,'' he says. ''It's a no-brainer that it's the kind of incident that cries out for an investigation by a grand jury, not that I'm afraid of making factual decisions on my own.'' 
  The requisite accumulation and extrapolation of the facts promise to be a fraught process. No shirkers allowed. Not with a boss who, when the report of the shooting came in over his personal ''hot line'' at 5 a.m., was wide awake at his weekend house in Litchfield County, scanning the Internet to stay ahead of the curve. On his watch, he has overseen nearly a million cases. 
  Mr. Brown, 74, whose unusual physique -- quite short, quite stout, quite robust -- belies a sizable ambition and ego intent on compiling a civic legacy that survives any and all smirches, had an aide record his words at the Monday meeting. Then he had his comments printed out. For the record, posterity or future reference? A bit of each. 
  It was the same procedure on Monday evening when Mr. Sharpton brought Mr. Bell's grief-racked relatives by and Mr. Brown explained the investigation process. He urged Mr. Sharpton ''to tone down the level of rhetoric'' lest the case take on the hysteria that accompanied the trial of the four officers who fatally shot Amadou Diallo, an unarmed Guinean immigrant. ''I just don't want to see us fall into a trap where the rhetoric so prejudices the case that a fair trial cannot be provided for, if indeed it reaches that point.'' Mr. Brown said he sensed that Mr. Sharpton left the meeting ''confident that I'd go where the evidence led me, and that's certainly my intention.''
  AFTER two decades as a judge, he prides himself on operating, yes, judiciously. Two months into that job in 1973, he made front page tabloid news and gained a nickname, Duck Down Brown, when a pistol-packing defendant opened fire in his courtroom at 100 Centre Street and he saved himself by diving beneath his desk, robe and all. 
  Mr. Brown, who grew up in Cambria Heights, lives in Forest Hills, and presided over the 1977 arraignment of the ''Son of Sam'' serial killer, David Berkowitz, left the Appellate Division in 1991 when Gov, Mario M. Cuomo appointed him Queens district attorney. ''I think I did it a better way,'' he says of his unorthodox trajectory. ''I'm not using this as a steppingstone to get to the bench: been there, done that.''
  Still, judicious is his favorite self-descriptor. He retains the honorific -- colleagues address him as ''Judge'' -- 15 years into his reign as district attorney, a position he intends to hold for at least another four-year term in order to claim the title of longest-tenured district attorney in Queens County. Retirement is out, he says. ''I don't look forward to sitting around and twiddling my thumbs.'' Weekend tennis matches (he's a fanatic) and visits with his two grandchildren help him unwind. 
  At the recent 50th reunion of his New York University Law School class, he crabbily commented to his wife, Rhoda, that the rest of the alums looked ancient. ''She said, 'Have you looked at yourself lately?' '' He has, and he's fine with it. About a lifetime of being shorter than the next guy, he shrugs: ''As long as I can see my wife eye-to-eye, I'm O.K.''
  Mr. Brown, flashing a diamond pinkie ring inherited from his dad, a real estate developer, and occupying a hobnail leather chair that fits like a throne, dives straight into Monday's notes when asked, in a lengthy chat made lengthier by his halting speech -- his authoritative croaking is lubricated with morning coffees and Diet Coke in the afternoon -- if he is worried about this investigation. 
  Might it turn out to be a career-breaker rather than a career-maker? ''Quite frankly, I think my career has already been defined,'' he says. Then he appropriates the question.
  ''What you're suggesting is 'You're damned if you do and you're damned if you don't,' but I'm not here because it's a cushy job,'' he says, realigning his red tie on his shirtfront. ''I'm here because I want to do the right thing. This is what I told my own staff,'' he adds, shuffling his notes and reading, verbatim, from the comments he made at his Monday meeting. ''It's the kind of story that defines our tenure,'' he said of the Bell shooting, reminding his staff that the office has the respect of the police as well as the confidence of Queens County residents and he isn't keen on forfeiting either. ''I want to be certain that we come out of this investigation with that reputation intact.'' 
  On that note, Mr. Brown produces a sheaf of flattering statements from Mr. Bloomberg. ''You don't mind if I pat myself on the back, do you?'' he asks.
