NEW YORK -- New York was stunned yesterday after police officers shot dead an unarmed man on his wedding day as he left his bachelor's party at a strip club. 
Officers fired 50 rounds at a car in which 
 and his friends were travelling after the vehicle crashed into an unmarked police van.
Bell, 23, who was driving, was pronounced dead on arrival at hospital after being shot in the neck, arm and shoulder. He had been due to wed the mother of his two young daughters, aged three and five months, hours later. Instead, Nicole Paultre, 22, was driven to a New York hospital to identify the body of her high-school sweetheart.
Two other men in the car were also hit, one 11 times. Raymond Kelly, the New York police commissioner, said it was too early to say if the shooting was justified. The district attorney's office is investigating.
The incident stemmed from an undercover police operation inside the Kalua Cabaret, a strip club in Queens, Kelly said. The club, which had a "chronic history of narcotics, prostitution and weapons complaints," was one violation away from being shut down.
At around 4 a.m. there was an altercation outside the club in which one man was heard shouting: "Get my gun."
Police followed a group of men as they got into a car and drove off. It was thought they were armed, Kelly said, but no weapons were found.
Bell and his friends apparently did not realize the plainclothes officers were police and fled. The officers opened fire after the men twice ran into an unmarked NYPD van. The spray of bullets hit the car 21 times. One officer fired his gun 31 times, emptying two full magazines, Kelly said. He would not say what prompted the officers to open fire.
Joseph Guzman, 31, who was in the front seat and shot at least 11 times, was critical in hospital. Trent Benefield, 23, was hit three times and described as stable.
The incident drew an outcry from community leaders, including the Rev. Al Sharpton.
Sharpton told ABC's Good Morning America that the volume of shots fired alone raised questions about the police's actions.
"How does one justify 50 shots at unarmed men?" Sharpton asked.
"This stinks. Something about the story being told does not seem right."
After visiting the two wounded men in hospital, Sharpton said he was outraged to find the pair handcuffed to their hospital beds.
