NEW CASTLE, Pa. - An explosion leveled a house, ignited a fire in a neighboring one and blew out windows in dozens of others Monday afternoon, injuring four people.
A natural gas leak was suspected as the cause of the blast just after noon, though there were no complaints of gas odors before the blast and no work crews were in the area, said Columbia Gas spokesman Matt Pitzarella. Gas service to homes near the explosion was shut off.
The blast was felt a mile away and sent debris through the walls of some of the other homes, police and neighbors said.
New Castle is about 45 miles northwest of Pittsburgh. 
Patrick Henry and Jared Baker, both in their early 30s, were hospitalized, Henry in critical condition and Baker in serious condition, a hospital spokeswoman said.
NATION
MURDER SUSPECT RUNS THROUGH SCHOOL: A murder suspect ran through an elementary school Monday in Columbis, S.C., as he fled police trying to arrest him, and schools in the area were locked down while officers tried to find him.
The man was inside Watkins-Nance Elementary School only briefly, entering through the front and running out a rear door, Richland County sheriff's spokesman Chris Cowan said.
Police didn't know whether the man was armed, but he was considered dangerous, Cowan said.
Officers had gone to a nearby house with arrest warrants for two men wanted in a killing during an apparent robbery at a motel last week.
MAYOR BELIEVES POLICE USED EXCESSIVE FORCE: Mayor Michael Bloomberg weighed in Monday on the uproar over a deadly police shooting in New York, saying bluntly that officers appeared to use excessive force when they fired 50 shots at an unarmed man in a confrontation outside a strip club hours before his wedding.
"I can tell you that it is to me unacceptable or inexplicable how you can have 50-odd shots fired, but that's up to the investigation to find out what really happened," Bloomberg said at a news conference after meeting with elected officials and community leaders, including the Rev. Al Sharpton and Rep. Charles Rangel.
The groom, 
 23, was killed and two of his friends wounded early Saturday after a bachelor party at the strip club. Suspecting that one of the men had a gun, police fired 50 rounds into the vehicle. The men were unarmed.
DELIBERATIONS START IN SMUGGLING CASE: A jury began deliberating Monday in Houston to determine the fate of a truck driver whom a prosecutor called "vile and heartless" for his role in the nation's deadliest human smuggling attempt.
Tyrone Williams is being retried in the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants who prosecutors say were among more than 70 illegal immigrants stuffed into his sweltering trailer. They said he ignored their pleas for help.
"These people did not have to die. There is only one reason they're dead, and he sits right over there," Assistant U.S. attorney Daniel Rodriguez said in closing arguments. He pointed at Williams.
Defense attorney Craig Washington said that Williams is guilty only of transporting illegal immigrants and that he had no idea people were dying in the trailer and never meant them any harm.
WORLD
RADIOACTIVE SUBSTANCE FOUND IN OFFICES: Traces of the radioactive substance responsible for the death of former Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko have been found in two downtown London offices, and three people who aren't feeling well have been referred for tests to determine if they might also have been exposed, officials said Monday.
Home Secretary John Reid, speaking in the House of Commons, called for calm during the investigation of the death of Litvinenko, 43, who died Thursday from exposure to radioactive polonium 210.
Reid said that about 500 people have called government hotlines established following Litvinenko's death, and that only "a small number" had been referred for testing as a "very precautionary measure."
PALESTINIAN LEADER DELAYS FIRST TRIP: Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh, of Hamas, has postponed a tour of Muslim countries because of Israeli travel restrictions, his office said Monday.
Haniyeh planned the tour, which was to have begun today, in part to help replenish his government's empty coffers. It was to have been his first trip abroad since the militantly anti-Israel Hamas took office in March, provoking crushing international economic sanctions on the Palestinian government.
The trip was delayed after Israel said security conditions didn't permit Europeans monitoring the Rafah crossing between Gaza and Egypt to cross from Israel into Gaza, the European mission and Palestinian officials said. Without the monitors, the passage doesn't operate.
BLAIR SORROWFUL ABOUT SLAVE TRADE: British Prime Minister Tony Blair condemned the African slave trade and expressed deep sorrow Monday for his country's role - but stopped short of offering an apology or compensation for the descendants of those victimized by it.
Activists are pressuring Britain to offer an apology - and reparations - for its role in slavery before it marks the 200th anniversary of the law that banned the country's participation in the Atlantic slave trade.
Blair wrote in an article in the New Nation newspaper that it was right to recognize the active role Britain once played in the trafficking of human beings.
Compiled by Jim Luksic from wire reports
LOS ANGELES - Pamela Anderson and Kid Rock each filed divorce papers Monday seeking to end their marriage of less than four months.
Anderson's representative wouldn't comment on the reason or any particulars of the divorce. Anderson and Rock, whose real name is Robert Ritchie, each cited "irreconcilable differences" in their divorce filings in Los Angeles County Superior Court.
"Yes, it's true," Anderson wrote in a brief statement on her Web site.
A message left with Ritchie's attorney wasn't immediately returned.
The relationship between Anderson, 39, and Ritchie, 35, has been a turbulent one since 2002. 1520 - Portuguese navigator Ferdinand Magellan reached the Pacific Ocean after passing through the South American strait.
1919 - American-born Lady Astor was elected the first female member of the British Parliament.
1925 - The Grand Ole Opry, Nashville's famed home of country music, made its radio debut on station WSM.
1979 - In 1979, an Air New Zealand DC-10 en route to the South Pole crashed in Antarctica, killing all 257 people aboard.
The following is a list of deaths in the area. Obituaries are on Pages 2, 3B.
Joan Burkett/Topeka
Ruth M. Davis/Lawrence
Kenneth Durstine/McAllen, Texas
Evelyn L. Fox/Topeka
Larry A. Franks/Wichita
Betsy C. Hurley/Rossville
Dorothy A. Johnson/Topeka
Herbert H. Jones/St. Marys
Patricia L. McDaniel/Topeka
E. Louise Noffsinger/Champaign, Ill.
Juanita R. Rehm/Topeka
Connie Skinner/Topeka
Charles F. Stickney/Topeka
Mary L. Unrein/Mayetta
Carolyn J. Whitebread/Topeka
Viola F. Wilson/Silver Lake
Former Sen. Gary Hart 70
Singer-songwriter Bruce Channel 66
Singer Randy Newman 63
Movie director Joe Dante 60
CBS News correspondent
Susan Spencer 60
"Late Show" orchestra leader
Paul Shaffer 57
Actor Ed Harris 56
Country singer Kristine Arnold 50
Actor Judd Nelson 47
Movie director Alfonso Cuaron 45
Rock musician Matt Cameron 44
Comedian Jon Stewart 44
TV personality Anna Nicole Smith . 39
DULUTH, Minn. - Troy Lee Gentry pleaded guilty Monday to a misdemeanor charge of falsely registering a captive bear as being killed in the wild.
Under the plea, the 39-year-old country singer agreed to pay a $15,000 fine, give up hunting, fishing and trapping in Minnesota for five years, and forfeit both the bear's hide and the bow he used to shoot the animal in 2004. The bear, named "Cubby," was killed in a 3-acre private enclosure.
The plea meant Gentry avoided a trial, which had been scheduled to start Monday. Gentry, of Franklin, Tenn., declined comment to the Star Tribune of Minneapolis.Super Kansas Cash $2.9 million
20-22-23-25-32-16
2by2 $20,000
Red numbers: 9-11
White numbers: 15-18
Pick 3
1-0-1
WANT TO SUBSCRIBE?
A 7-day subscription by carrier is $13.91 + tax per month, a 6-day (Monday-Saturday) subscription by carrier is $9.45 + tax per month, a 3-day (Friday-Sunday) subscription by carrier is $8.98 + tax per month and a Sunday-only subscription is $6.48 + tax per month. Call (785) 295-1133 to subscribe or for mail rates.
*Weekend/holiday subscribers will receive delivery of The Topeka Capital-Journal on the following days: Christmas: Monday, Dec. 25, 2006; New Year's Day: Monday, Jan. 1, 2007; Martin Luther King Jr. Day: Monday, Jan. 15, 2007; Presidents Day: Monday, Feb. 19, 2007; Memorial Day: Monday, May 28, 2007; Independence Day: Wednesday, July 4, 2007; Labor Day: Monday, Sept. 3, 2007; Veterans Day: Sunday, Nov. 11, 2007 to be delivered Monday, Nov. 12, 2007; Thanksgiving Day: Thursday, Nov. 22, 2007; Christmas: Tuesday, Dec. 25, 2007.
Periodical-class postage paid at Topeka, KS, (USPS 633540)
Postmaster: Send address changes to Mail Subscriptions, The Topeka Capital-Journal, 616 S.E. Jefferson, Topeka, KS 66607
