At least 53 miners dead in coal mine explosions
BEIJING (AP) - Explosions in two Chinese coal mines have left at least 53 workers dead and six missing, China's Xinhua News Agency and safety officials said Sunday. 
Both blasts occurred the same day and together represent the highest reported death toll for one day in China's notoriously dangerous mines in recent weeks.
The first occurred Saturday in the Yuanhua Coal Mine in Jixi, a city in northeastern Heilongjiang province, Xinhua said.
By Sunday, the remains of 21 miners had been found, while six miners were still missing, Xinhua said. Four managed to escape.
In the southwestern province Yunnan, the death toll from a gas explosion in a shaft in Fuyuan county rose overnight from 20 to at least 32 miners as rescuers found more bodies, Xinhua said. Another 28 miners were injured in the blast, it said.
Community outraged over fatal shooting
NEW YORK (AP) - 
 and his fiancee had already shared a high school romance, then two children. In the early hours of what was to be their wedding day, the reception hall lay waiting, covered in satin and adorned with balloons.
But the ceremony never occurred Saturday. Police shot 50 rounds at the groom's car as he drove away from his bachelor party, killing the 23-year-old hours before he was to walk down the aisle.
The hail of gunfire at a car full of unarmed men drew an outcry from family members and community leaders.
The officers' shots struck the men's car 21 times after it rammed into an undercover officer and hit an unmarked NYPD minivan, police said. Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said it was too early to say whether the shooting was justified.
One man dies on Calgary's frigid streets
CALGARY (CP) - Despite the best efforts of city officials and volunteers to provide emergency shelter for Calgary's homeless as a severe cold snap hit the city, one person was found dead on the street early Saturday.
Insp. Steve Barlow said the cause of death has not been confirmed, but the weather could have been a factor.
The man was found by a passerby, who called paramedics. He was taken to hospital but was pronounced dead.
Cat, dog, exotic snake and six people escape Calgary house fire
CALGARY (CP) - Six people - along with a cat, a dog and an exotic snake - are homeless after a fire ripped through a home Saturday, sending clouds of black smoke into the cold winter sky.
Walter Christie was watching television with his 16-year-old daughter around noon when she said she thought she smelled something.
Natasha Christie rushed to get their dog, Chyna, out while Christie ran back into the house to alert his downstairs neighbours and rescue his cat and a 1.7- metre royal ball python named Zeus, who was attempting to break out of its cage.
Christie got on the phone with a fire dispatcher who advised him to drop to the floor and crawl toward any voice he could hear - in this case Natasha.
