NYPD RAIDS AIMED at flushing an "important" witness to the 50-shot police barrage that killed 

 on his wedding day ratcheted up tensions yesterday in Queens, where angry residents accused cops of blaming the victims.
The dragnet did not find the mysterious "fourth man" who cops believe fled the tragic shooting - although detectives were still questioning at least one person early today. 
Cops arrested at least six people, several on gun charges unrelated to the shooting. But police failed to find the gun that cops say they believe the mystery man ran off with when undercover and plainclothes cops opened fire early Saturday.
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly defended the raids - as sources said at least four witnesses have told investigators they saw a man in a tan jacket standing near Bell's car just before the shooting erupted.
"The existence of a fourth person is important to this investigation," Kelly said.
But Sanford Rubenstein, attorney for the two men wounded in the shooting - Trent Benefield, 23, and Joseph Guzman, 31 - said, "The concept of a fourth man is a myth, created by whoever for whatever spin."
Cops using information gleaned from the raids zeroed in on Jean Nelson, who some investigators believed could be the fourth man, sources said.
Nelson - a 27-year-old known on the street as M.O. - was one of several men who gathered for Bell's bachelor party at the Kalua Cabaret strip club in Jamaica before the fatal police shooting.
Cops picked up Nelson early yesterday, then kicked him loose without charging him - leading a high-ranking law enforcement source to say he was not the mystery man.
But detectives grabbed Nelson again about 8:25 p.m. after he stepped out of his Sutphin Blvd. building and hustled him off in a police car, his dad said.
"Cops are hassling everyone in the complex. They're messing with poor people," said Nelson's dad, who declined to give his name. "They are trying to frame people."
Four hours earlier, cops raided a Bronx apartment and took away Eric Kellam, 29, his sister said. Cops told the 23-year-old woman the raid was "in connection to the 

 shooting" and revealed they were looking for a man named Nelson, showing her a photo, she said.
The aggressive tactics infuriated black residents in Jamaica, who are seething over the fatal police shooting of yet another unarmed black man.
"I think what they are doing is repulsive, disgusting and deplorable," said Bishop Erskine Williams Sr., whose son was among those nabbed Wednesday and yesterday during the raids.
"They are trying to put together something to cover up an assassination and an execution of this young boy," said Williams, who has been acting as a spokesman for Benefield and Guzman.
Cops conducted the first raid at 6 a.m. Wednesday at the Baisley Park Houses in Jamaica, taking four people into custody. A loaded 9-mm. handgun and a small amount of marijuana were recovered in an apartment, which sources called a known drug-dealing location.
Three men in the home were charged with criminal possession of a weapon - the 9-mm. handgun, which police said had no link to Saturday's shooting.
One of those rousted, LaToya Smith, 26, who was not charged, said cops didn't ask her anything about the gun. She said they questioned her about Bell's pals and told her, "If you don't tell us what we want to hear, you know, you can get five years."
A second raid at Baisley yesterday resulted in the arrest of Williams' son, Erskine Jr., 26, for failing to pay a $25 fine for trespassing last year. His friend Jameek Benston was also taken into custody.
"They wanted to know what I was talking to Trent about," said the younger Williams, who had spent two nights sitting by Benefield's bed at Mary Immaculate Hospital. "They told me I knew who the fourth guy was."
Williams Jr. said that when he denied knowing who the fourth man was, they accused him of selling drugs and asked if he knew local thugs..
Bell, Benefield and Guzman were shot on Liverpool St. after an undercover cop followed them out of the Kalua Cabaret, where a police task force was investigating prostitution.
Believing Guzman had a gun, the undercover followed the men to Bell's car and fired the opening salvo after Bell, 23, clipped him with the vehicle.
Michael Hardy, a lawyer who represents Guzman and Benefield, said the wounded men told him unequivocally that there was no fourth man and cops never identified themselves before shooting.
"They were not aware the person who began shooting at their vehicle was a police officer," Hardy told New York 1 last night, adding the victims thought they were being "carjacked."
Hardy quoted Guzman as saying Bell turned to him in the front seat and uttered his last words - "I love you, son."
The undercover cop and police union officials say the cops fired after Bell hit the undercover and Guzman reached for a gun. No gun has been found.
The officers - two black, two white and one dark-skinned Hispanic - have been placed on paid leave and told to give up their guns.
Charles King, a lawyer representing at least three of the men who witnessed the shooting, said they were willing to testify before a grand jury probing the incident.
"These witnesses said the undercover never identified himself. Never," King said. "Police say they are searching for a fourth man? There was no fourth person in the car."
csiemaszko@nydailynews.com
