KABUL, Afghanistan -- A Pakistani suicide bomber detonated himself in a crowded restaurant Sunday, killing 15 people and wounding 24, including an Afghan special forces commander and a district chief, who appeared to be the target of his attack, the provincial governor said. Afghan officials say the majority of suicide bombers in the southeastern province of Paktika come from neighboring Pakistan. Also Sunday, one NATO soldier and an estimated 57 insurgents were killed in four other attacks in southern Afghanistan. President Bush and Afghan President Hamid Karzai in a call Saturday evening discussed proposed plans for an upcoming meeting involving tribal leaders from Afghanistan and Pakistan. Karzai hopes the meeting can help solve the problem of militants from Pakistan launching attacks in Afghanistan.
LEXINGTON, S.C. -- A man fatally shot his friend with a high-powered rifle in a dispute over a $20 bet on the annual South Carolina-Clemson college football game, authorities said Sunday. James Walter Quick, 42, has been charged with murder in the shooting of Richard Allen Johnson, 43, authorities said. The two, who drank beer all afternoon and watched the game Saturday at Johnson's home, began arguing about the bet after the game. Lexington County Sheriff James Metts said Quick got his hunting rifle from his car and fired one shot, hitting Johnson in the chest. Deputies arrested Quick without incident. 
LONDON -- A British Cabinet minister accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of "attacks on individual liberty and on democracy" and said Sunday that relations with Moscow were strained after a former KGB agent was poisoned to death in London. The comments by Peter Hain, the government's Northern Ireland Secretary, were the strongest leveled at Moscow since Alexander Litvinenko died Thursday. "His success in binding what is a disintegrating nation together with an economy that was collapsing into Mafioso style chaos ... must be balanced against the fact there have been huge attacks on individual liberty and on democracy," Hain said of Putin. British officials have so far avoided blaming Moscow for Litvinenko's death and Hain did not comment directly on the case.
NEW YORK -- An angry crowd demanded Sunday to know why police officers killed an unarmed man on the day of his wedding, firing 50 shots that also wounded two of the man's friends. At a vigil and rally the day after 23-year-old 
 was killed, a crowd led by the Rev. Al Sharpton shouted "No justice, no peace." "We cannot allow this to continue to happen," Sharpton said at the gathering outside Mary Immaculate Hospital, where one of the wounded men was in critical condition. The police officers' group 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement Who Care said it was issuing a vote of no confidence in Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly over the shooting. The five officers involved in the shooting were placed on paid administrative leave pending investigation.
OAXACA, Mexico -- Leftist protesters trying to force out the Oaxaca state governor set fire to another building Sunday after a night of torching government offices and vehicles in running street battles with police that injured at least 43 people. The violence broke out late Saturday after masked youths broke away from a protest march by about 4,000 people and began attacking police and buildings. Police drove off attackers hurling rocks, fireworks and gasoline bombs in the main square with tear gas and jets of water from tanker trucks, then advanced in massed ranks to drive protesters from a camp at a smaller plaza two blocks away. In a press statement, the federal police said 152 people had been arrested. State prosecutors said at least 43 people were injured.
LAMIDJA, Chad -- As a rebel convoy headed toward N'Djamena, the capital of this volatile central African nation, government troops set up roadblocks and began searching cars and fighting-age men. In a radio broadcast Sunday, Chad's communications minister, Moussa Doumgor, repeated accusations that neighboring Sudan is financing the rebels, which Sudan denies. For the first time, h accused Saudi Arabia of supporting the rebels as well. On Saturday, the rebels launched an attack and claimed to have seized Abeche, the largest city in the country's volatile east, but pulled out Sunday before government troops arrived.
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- Hezbollah's deputy secretary-general said Sunday that the militant Shiite Muslim group will press ahead with threatened street protests and other peaceful means seeking to topple Lebanon's Western-backed government and will stage its actions without warning. Sheik Naim Kassem's comments came a day after the Cabinet approved a plan for an international tribunal to try suspects in the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, overriding objections from Hezbollah and other factions allied with Syria, which many Lebanese blame for the killing.
KATMANDU, Nepal -- Nepal's ruling parties missed a Sunday deadline to form an interim parliament with Maoist rebels, the latest in a series of delays that have prompted a Maoist leader to question the government's commitment to a landmark peace accord signed just days before. "These delays are causing the people to lose faith in us," said Dev Gurung, a member of the Maoist peace talks team. "It appears the government is not serious about following the agreement." The government said officials had been busy with other issues related to the peace process, including talks with the United Nations on setting up camps where Maoist fighters would be confined and their weapons locked.
