INTERNATIONAL A3-22Bush Rejects Quick Exit; Iraqi Premier Offers HopePresident Bush rejected the idea of a quick troop withdrawal from Iraq, even as Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq said his country's forces would be ready to take over substantial security responsibility by next June.  A1For many Iraqis, the summit meeting in Jordan between Mr.  
Maliki and President Bush promised little and delivered less, and reaffirmed a widespread loss of faith in the elected government's ability to turn things around.  A18Child Sex Abuse in AfricaEven as sub-Saharan Africa races to adopt many of the developed world's norms for children, child sexual abuse remains a stubbornly persistent problem. In much of the continent, child advocates say, perpetrators are shielded by the traditionally low status of girls and a lingering view that sexual abuse should be dealt with privately.  A1Lower Cost of AIDS DrugsWith the financial backing of a group of nations led by France, former President Bill Clinton announced that his foundation had negotiated deeply reduced prices for 19 AIDS drugs to treat children in 62 developing countries. The initiative halved the cost of the simplest-to-use therapy to less than $60 a year for each child.  A9Radiation at London SitesIn the latest turn in the mystery surrounding Alexander Litvinenko, the former Russian spy who died of radiation poisoning in London last week, the British government said that radiation had been detected in 12 locations around the city.  A14Pessimism on Palestinian UnityTalks to form a Palestinian unity government are at a dead end, said the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, ensuring that the Bush administration's plan to push hard toward a Middle East peace initiative will stay in the deep freeze for now.  A21NATIONAL A24-29Pushing Responsibility In Medicaid PatientsWest Virginia plans to reward ''responsible'' Medicaid patients with significant extra benefits or -- as critics describe it-- to punish poor people who do not join weight-loss or antismoking programs.  A1McCain Speaks to GovernorsSenator John McCain of Arizona turned up at the annual meeting of the Republican Governors Association, a group headed by McCain's chief rival for their party's 2008 presidential nomination, Mitt Romney, the Massachusetts governor.  A28Revising the Citizenship TestThe federal government rolled out a new citizenship test to replace an exam that critics say has encouraged prospective Americans simply to memorize facts, rather than fully understand the principles of a democracy.  A26Aid Letters for Storm VictimsLouisiana has sent letters to more than 10,000 families stating how much money they can receive to rebuild their homes under the $7.5 billion housing program Congress financed this year, state officials announced.  A24Presidential Campaign BeginsGov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa formally opened his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination, billing himself as the not-from-Washington candidate who would strive to renew a forgotten sense of community across America and offer common-sense judgment in foreign policy.  A28Civil Defense Logo's EndThe stark insignia of civil defense -- a C and D forming a red circle in a white triangle on a blue disk -- died after a long eclipse. Its demise was announced by the National Emergency Management Association, the group that represents state emergency managers.  A24NEW YORK/REGION B1-8Working-Class Housing In Brooklyn Is to Be SoldStarrett City, a 140-acre apartment complex built 30 years ago in Brooklyn as an enclave for working-class New Yorkers, is on the auction block, its owners confirmed. Real estate executives expect the bidding for the complex to exceed $1 billion.  A1Spitzer Limits ContributionsGovernor-elect Eliot Spitzer, moving swiftly in his efforts to change the culture of Albany, said he would unilaterally stop accepting campaign contributions greater than $10,000 in individual donations.  B1Four Arrested in Queens CaseDetectives investigating the fatal police shooting of 
 an unarmed black man, arrested four people at a Queens apartment building and seized a loaded semiautomatic handgun and a bag of marijuana, the police said.  B1Neediest Cases B5BUSINESS DAY C1-10Profiting From Prostate CancerAmong several widely used treatments for prostate cancer, one stands out for its profit potential. The approach, a type of radiation therapy known as intensity modulated radiation therapy, can mean reimbursement for doctors of $47,000 or more a patient.  A1Insider Trading RegulationCharles E. Grassley, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, has asked NASD, which oversees the securities industry, to detail how it identifies insider trading.  C1Sony Management ShuffleKen Kutaragi, the father of the PlayStation game console, will no longer run day-to-day operations at Sony's video game unit. Starting today, the job will belong to Kazuo Hirai, who has been running the game unit's American division.  C1Business Digest C2OBITUARIES C11George W. S. TrowA writer and media critic known for his lamentations over what he saw as the twilight of culture in late-20th-century America, he was 63.  C11Rose MattusAn entrepreneur who, with her husband, created Haagen-Dazs ice cream, she was 90.  C11EDITORIAL A30-31Editorials: Bush, Maliki and that memo; when the Joneses can't keep up; another plan for snowmobiles; Mom, Dad, buy the broccoli.Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas L. Friedman.Crossword E36Public Lives B4TV Listings E28Weather C12
