THEY PLAYED baseball together for coach Glenn Beyer at John Adams High School in Ozone Park, were on the Adams team that beat Port Richmond at Yankee Stadium in the PSAL championship game in June of 1999. Jason Powell played first and 

 was a kid off the bench that year, and if you had told them that a few years later Bell would be dead from gunshot wounds on the day he was supposed to get married, everybody on the Adams Spartans would have laughed at you, the way they laughed at everything that day from what felt like the top of the world.
But that is what Jason Powell talked about yesterday, 

 dead at 23. He talked about that and about what a short distance it can be from the ballfield at Adams to the street outside the Kalua Cabaret in Jamaica, Queens, how the smiling face that Powell will always remember somehow became the face of this kind of racial controversy, and the kind of senseless death the city does not ever forget. 
"From Adams to that club?" Jason Powell was saying yesterday afternoon. "It's a bus away."
Powell paused and said, "A bus and a short walk," he said.
Powell and Bell played two seasons together. By the time 

 was a junior, he was an outfielder at Adams and a pitcher who would be good enough to pitch for Nassau Community College, and still dream about making the pros.
Then his girlfriend, Nicole, the woman he was supposed to marry on Saturday, became pregnant with their first child and 

 life changed. Now he is dead outside a club where he had gone for a bachelor party with some buddies, dead because he was at the wrong place at the wrong time in New York when guns belonging to undercover policemen began going off.
"He was always the one to walk away," Jason Powell said.
Then he was talking about the very best of it for them as kids, talking about that day when they took a bus and finally got on the Deegan to go play a ballgame for the championship of high school ball in their city at Yankee Stadium.
"I think we both knew that we might be inside that ballpark again, but we were never ever going to be on that field again," Jason Powell said. "We used to talk about it all the time, Sean saying, 'We played where Derek Jeter played.' "
Powell got the call early Saturday morning, 7 in the morning, that 

 had died outside Kalua Cabaret a few hours earlier. Then he was calling other Adams ballplayers and getting calls and then somebody finally called Beyer, who is the baseball coach at Adams and the guidance counselor at Fort Hamilton High School, to tell the coach that 

 had died the morning before he was supposed to marry Nicole Paultre, the girl Jason Powell had introduced him to at Adams.
The smiling face you see in the newspapers now, the smiling face to go with stories about the 50 rounds fired outside Club Kalua, that is a face Beyer remembers, too. The pitcher who wore No. 33, who loved to pitch inside even when his fastball was topping out at 85 mph, who had so much attitude pitching for the John Adams Spartans that Beyer used to say he reminded him of Bob Gibson.
"Of course," Beyer was saying yesterday, "then I had to explain to the kid who Bob Gibson was."

 coach was in his office at Fort Hamilton High yesterday, trying to put together a collage to go with the floral arrangement Adams' baseball plans to send to the Community Church of Christ on 108th Ave. in Jamaica, where both a wake and funeral will be held for 

 tomorrow afternoon.
"I've got pictures scattered all over my desk that were never supposed to be used like this," Beyer said.
He talked about baseball things yesterday the way Jason Powell did, talked about how he would drop off 

 after practice sometimes, how after Bell's sophomore season Adams had no home games, because the ballfield at the school was finally being renovated.
"We played on turf his first season," Beyer said. "Think of the fastest turf field you ever saw, and then know that the older ours got, it was even faster. Any kid who ever played for me on that field used to hear the same thing: If a guy hit a ball hard enough through the shortstop's legs, it was gonna be a home run, because the ball was gonna roll forever."
Then he was remembering 

 the pitcher, how the way he carried himself on the mound always made you think he had bigger stuff than he really did. Not trying to make him bigger in death than he was in life. Just wanting you to know the kid, he said.
"He just had this cool attitude about him," Beyer said. "Ask anybody on our team. That attitude was that the pitcher's mound belonged to him."
They thought they might win another championship Bell's senior year, then lost in the second round of the playoffs. Even then, Beyer and Bell talked about how they would always have that day at Yankee Stadium, the celebration on the field, then the trip to Aldo's Pizzeria in Ozone Park, where he saw a bunch of high school ballplayers, 

 included, turn back into Little Leaguers.
"I drove him home," Beyer said. "That was the day I stole a line from Mike Keenan. I told Sean and all the rest of them that we were going to walk together forever."
Now Bell is dead because everything went so tragically wrong after his bachelor party and the early morning outside a club the police were watching for drugs and prostitution exploded all around him.
"I keep everything," Glenn Beyer said. "This morning I found the index cards I passed out to the kids from the '99 team. They were supposed to tell on one side what was going through their mind about John Adams baseball. On the other side they were supposed to answer the question about where they were going to be in 10 years. We were going to read all the cards at the 10th reunion of the championship game."
He said that 

 wrote that he just wanted to be remembered as someone who did his best in everything he tried.
"He was supposed to make it to '09," his high school coach said yesterday. "They all were."
