Mayor Michael Bloomberg weighed in on the uproar over a deadly police shooting yesterday, saying bluntly that officers appeared to use excessive force when they fired 50 shots at an unarmed man in a confrontation outside a strip club hours before his wedding. 
"I can tell you that it is to me unacceptable or inexplicable how you can have 50-odd shots fired, but that's up to the investigation to find out what really happened," Bloomberg said at a news conference after meeting with elected officials and community leaders including Rev. Al Sharpton and Representative Charles Rangel.
The groom, 
 23, was killed and two of his friends wounded early Saturday after a bachelor party at the strip club.
Suspecting that one of the men had a gun, police fired 50 rounds into the vehicle. The men were unarmed.
Sharpton called it a "very candid" meeting. He said the message to Bloomberg was: "This city must show moral outrage that 50 shots were fired on three unarmed men." Some have also questioned whether the shooting was racially motivated because the victims were all black men. The five officers who fired their guns included two blacks, two whites and one Hispanic.
Of the victims, Bloomberg said yesterday: "There is no evidence that they were doing anything wrong," referring to everything leading up to the moment they struck the officer with their car.
For a mayor to question the actions of the officers and defend the shooting victims, while reaching out immediately to the grieving community, sets a decidedly different tone than in the past.
Former mayor Rudy Giuliani was hounded for what some viewed as a slow response to the killing of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed West African immigrant who was shot 19 times in the Bronx by four white officers. They were later acquitted of criminal charges.
The gunfire in the current case stemmed from an undercover operation inside the Kalua Cabaret, where seven officers in plain clothes were investigating alleged prostitution and drug use.
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly has said the groom was involved in an argument outside the club after 4 a.m., and one of his friends made a reference to a gun.
An undercover officer walked closely behind Bell and his friends as they headed for their car. As he walked toward the front of the vehicle, they drove forward, striking him and an undercover police vehicle, Kelly said.
The officer who had followed the group on foot was apparently the first to open fire, Kelly said. One 12-year veteran fired his weapon 31 times, emptying two full magazines, Kelly said.
Bloomberg also said police appeared to have violated the policy stating that officers cannot shoot at a vehicle being used as a weapon if no other deadly force is involved.
