Claude Lewis
is a longtime Philadelphia journalist
Three things about New York have created a maelstrom in waiting.
First: Despite its reputation as a relatively safe city, New York is Nervoustown, USA. Every time somebody snaps his fingers there, the noise makes people jump. A city that requires more than 40,000 cops to maintain order is a city that lives with deep trouble. The real surprise is that shootouts involving men and women in blue don't occur more often than they do in the Big Apple.
Second: People in certain neighborhoods are convinced their lives are valued less than others throughout the city. There's a barely managed, ever-present clash of cultures on the street. 
Third: When the ever-present issue of race is added to the mix, well, things can blow.
Cops are nervous in Nervoustown. Many of them think every crowd of three or more may involve a gun.
That may have contributed to the mess last Saturday morning, when 
 23, died in a hail of gunfire from five undercover police officers, who riddled a car in which Bell and two other unarmed men of color were passengers. The police officers were patrolling the Kalua Cabaret, a strip club in Queens. The patrol was part of a crackdown instituted earlier this year after Jennifer Moore, a New Jersey teenager, was abducted, raped and slain in Manhattan.
Bell and two friends left the Kalua Cabaret, and when the men's car struck one of the officers, the undercover cops shot more than 50 times, with 21 bullets hitting the car. When the smoke cleared, Bell, who had just left his bachelor party - yes, this was his wedding day - had been shot dead. His two companions are still in the hospital.
Some argue that the rarity of such shootings "proves" the police usually act with restraint and have not earned their reputation in some communities as renegades in uniforms. New York's finest are not the so-called cowboys patrolling the streets and alleys of the world's most famous metropolis.
Mayor Mike Bloomberg was quickly put to the test. Several community leaders angrily descended upon City Hall to demand a thorough investigation of the circumstances. Bloomberg did the only thing a mayor can do: He decried the disaster yet stood behind the police force.
Such is life in the big city. Eleven years ago, in the Bronx, police officers coming upon a bodega robbery fired their guns 125 times, with one officer firing 45 bullets. In 1997, Abner Louima, a Haitian immigrant, was assaulted with a broom handle in the men's room of a Brooklyn precinct by three police officers.
In 1999, the city nearly exploded when an unarmed African immigrant, Amadou Diallo, was gunned down by police, who shot him 19 times while firing 41 bullets.
In 2004, a 19-year-old man was shot to death on the roof of a housing project. The police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, later characterized the shooting as "unjustified."
Many say the Bloomberg/Kelly administration is a dramatic improvement over the Rudy Giuliani days, when the former mayor often seemed to defend police shootings reflexively and waged a personal vendetta against crime in New York. Crime did decrease under Giuliani, but at the cost of some lives and liberty, as citizens complained of less freedom.
Mayor Bloomberg called the Bell shooting "excessive." Even such measured language raised the ire of some critics, who charged that the mayor was playing politics and catering to long-standing African American grievances.
Gatherings and vigils started the morning after the shootings. Investigations are under way in City Hall and in Queens. Allegations of improper practices and inadequate training have already begun. That's precisely what increases citizen suspicion of police.
U.S. Rep. Charles B. Rangel (D., N.Y.) spoke thoughtfully of the latest killing by New York City's finest and waited for word from the district attorney of Queens before he'd make further remarks. His concern was for the safety of citizens of the city and the police officers as well.
The parents of the dead man grieved silently at the periphery of the chaos surrounding the killing of Bell and the injury of his two friends.
Later, Bell's fiance, 22-year-old Nicole Paultre, mother of their two daughters, pitifully pleaded with Bishop Lester Williams to perform the wedding for her and her dead fianc anyway. But, of course, it could not be legally done.
As politics and protests played out all around her, Paultre, Bell's former high school sweetheart, was left with an ache in her heart and a stunning wedding dress with no place to wear it.
Contact Claude Lewis at clewis97@ptd.net.
