The police lieutenant in charge of the undercover unit that fatally shot a Queens groom will face tough questioning by department brass over his role in the tragic incident, sources said yesterday.  
Lt. Gary Napoli, a 22-year veteran, was overseeing the club-crackdown task force outside a seedy South Jamaica strip joint early Saturday when one of his plainclothes officers blew his cover, pulled his gun and tried to stop husband-to-be 
 and his pals, thinking they had a firearm, the sources said.  
Bell was shot dead and two friends wounded in the ensuing 10 seconds of gunfire, during which 50 bullets were shot by five cops -  including 31 by one detective. Bell and his two friends were unarmed.   
Before the shooting began, the undercover -  whose name The Post is withholding because of NYPD concerns for his safety -  hurriedly left the Kalua Cabaret and used his partner's cellphone to call Napoli, who was waiting with two other plainclothes officers in an unmarked car nearby.  
"I think there's a gun!" the undercover told Napoli before rushing to follow Bell and his friends to their car, sources said. Napoli's team rushed to the location of Bell's Nissan Altima, which was parked on Liverpool Street, but stopped too far down the block to box it in. So a second unmarked police van that was following the lieutenant's car pulled up closer to it.  
Bell -  trying to escape, friends say, because he didn't know that the plainclothes men were cops -  struck the undercover twice with his car and smashed the van.  
That's when the undercover fired his first of 11 shots. The bullets led the other cops to believe that they were being fired on from someone in the car, so they, too, started shooting, the sources said.  
"[Napoli] believed that his vehicle and personnel were being fired upon," sources said, quoting the NYPD's incident report. "Lt. Napoli attempted to seek cover in his rental auto until the shots ended."  
One source said he ducked under the dashboard and then slid out the door and crawled on his belly to the front of the vehicle. He never fired. The lieutenant's conduct, as well as that of the other officers involved in the incident, will be scrutinized by NYPD officials, sources said. A grand jury is set to convene on the case.  
The middle-aged lieutenant -  reached yesterday at his Westchester home, where his wife was decorating the lawn for Christmas -  waved off a reporter, saying, "Please, no. Please, no."  
One police source insisted of Napoli: "The guy was doing everything he was supposed to be doing" during the mayhem.  
Neighbor Joe Kokasko, 59, a retired Sanitation official, called Napoli "as sweet as could be."  
"He's friendly. He's not an angry cop," Kokasko said.  
Meanwhile, the embattled cop who unloaded the 31 bullets is still vehemently insisting "he was right," a top-level source said.  
"This was a split-second decision I had to make, and I did," the detective, Michael Oliver, told the source. "The guy believes in what he did," the source added of Oliver, a 12-year-veteran.  
"He feels terrible for the [Bell] family over what happened. He's saddened for what everyone is going through. But this was, 'I thought I was getting fired upon.' "       
One source said the undercover identified himself as a cop, which is very rarely done, only because "he thought he was preventing a murder."  
"He feels terrible," the source said of the cop, who is single and was described as very close to his Haitian dad and Mexican mom.  
The cops have claimed that there was a fourth man in the car who escaped before the undercover could reach it, and they think he may have had the gun they were looking for and possibly tossed it as he fled.  
Police officials said they had "made progress" in their hunt to identify the man.  
About 60 uniformed cops scoured the area around Liverpool Street, looking for a gun. They focused on the AirTrain yard about a half a block away, using backhoes and rakes to sift through piles of dirt and debris.  
Authorities said they have found a third witness to the shooting and were talking to him. They also were scouring video footage from security cameras at the club to see who was coming and going -  and with whom - to try to root out more potential witnesses.  
The two officers with Napoli were identified by sources as Paul Hedley and Mark Cooper.  
Hedley, who was driving the car, fired once before chasing down Bell's friend Trent Benefield, who was in the Altima. Hedley has been on the force eight years and is a former Army captain who recently spent a year in Kuwait.  
Cooper, who fired four times, is a 17-year vet and a churchgoing family man with four kids.  
A fifth officer, Michael Carey, was with Oliver in an unmarked police van and fired three shots.  
The NYPD and New Jersey authorities said they had received information that gangs may try to now target cops in retaliation for the shooting.  
Additional reporting by Heidi Singer, G.N. Miller, Tom Liddy and Perry Chiaramonte 
