A day after claiming police used "excessive force" in the strip-club car shooting that left an unarmed man dead on his wedding day, Mayor Bloomberg yesterday said he was speaking only as "a civilian" - but then stated he wants the cops tried in Queens. 
Responding to criticism from the police unions for labeling the actions of five cops who unleashed 50 rounds "unacceptable," Bloomberg stated, "I said what I believed. I am a civilian. I am not a professional law-enforcement officer."   
And although not a single indictment has been handed up in the shooting death of 
 23, the mayor -  who urged New Yorkers not to rush to judgment -  was already talking about where the jury should sit.  
"I remember the [Amadou] Diallo case," Bloomberg told reporters after meeting with community leaders in Queens.  
"The trial actually got moved upstate because there was so much going on here. I think it would be better to have it, if there is [a trial], I'd certainly rather have it here. So I want to make sure that we do not prejudice the case."  
Bloomberg was referring to the trial of the Bronx cops who in 1999 fired 41 shots in gunning down Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant, when they mistook his wallet for a gun.  
A judge, citing pretrial publicity, changed the venue from The Bronx to Albany, where a jury acquitted the officers.  
Bell was killed Saturday and his two friends wounded when cops, thinking one of them had a gun, squeezed off dozens of rounds at their moving car. The unarmed trio had just left Bell's bachelor party at a Jamaica strip club.  
Although Bloomberg has gotten high marks from some black leaders for keeping the lid on a volatile situation, Detective Endowment Association chief Michael Palladino said "premature statements made without the benefit of facts only serve to inflame tensions."  
Legal experts said the mayor's good intentions could backfire by poisoning the jury well.  
"The thing that baffles me is he talks about restraint, then makes statements condemning the cops, which is inconsistent and improper," said lawyer Joseph Tacopina, who represented one of the cops charged in the infamous 1997 Abner Louima torture scandal.  
But another lawyer said Bloomberg doesn't risk anything by speaking out about the shooting because bids to change venue are very common -  but they rarely succeed.  
"Even if the mayor did not say anything, the defense attorneys were going to argue for change of venue," said Kenneth Thompson, a former federal prosecutor who argued the case against cops convicted of assaulting Louima. "That's the oldest trick in the book."  
By meeting with community leaders and criticizing the cops, Bloomberg has avoided the criticism that dogged then-Mayor Rudy Giuliani during the Louima and Diallo cases.  
But one former Giuliani administration official, who declined to be identified, said Bloomberg "gets a pass" on a lot of issues -  including his decision to offer his high-level opinion during a sensitive investigation.  
Giuliani, the official said, was excoriated for making prejudgments in defense of cops.  
"Rudy would go in one extreme, and Mike [will] go to another extreme, but it's pre-judging," said the source.  
Police Commissioner Ray Kelly distanced himself from Bloomberg's "excessive force" comment, saying, "We don't know all the facts."  
Bloomberg yesterday met with Bell's fiance, his parents and the Rev. Al Sharpton for about an hour at the family's church.  
Afterward, Bell's family went on to the J. Foster Phillips funeral home to plan his rites, which are set for Friday.  
"They just killed my son for what reason? I don't think they even know," Bell's father, William, told ABC-TV Channel 7.  
About 100 people later attended a rally at the NAACP's headquarters in St. Albans, Queens.  
Additional reporting by Leonard Greene, Dareh Gregorian and Eric Lenkowitz 
