The undercover police officer who fired the opening salvo in a 50-shot barrage that killed a Queens man on his wedding day told his story Tuesday for the first time. 
The detective insisted he identified himself as a police officer long before he fired on the car carrying 
 23, and two friends.
"This cop screamed, 'Police!' and he had his shield out," attorney Philip Karasyk told the New York Daily News.
The detective held his fire after Bell clipped him with his Nissan Altima, said Karasyk, who refused to name his client.
"Once the car hit him, he jumped to the side," Karasyk said.
But when the detective saw the man sitting in the passenger seat -- whom police sources identified as Joseph Guzman -- reach into his waistband, the officer fired the first of 11 rounds at the men.
Four other officers, believing they were being shot at, also fired on the car, Karasyk said. When the gunfire was over, Bell was dead and Guzman and another man, Trent Benefield, were badly wounded.
"The other officers believed the shots were coming from the vehicle," Karasyk said. "They only did so in this case because they were in mortal fear for their lives."
The shooting occurred early Saturday as Bell and his friends left his bachelor party at a Queens strip club where police were conducting an undercover investigation.
Investigators on Tuesday questioned a third civilian witness.
There are two other civilian witnesses: One woman who was on the street and says she saw officers firing their weapons, and a second woman who from her window spotted a man running away from the area around the time of the shooting. Investigators tried to determine if that man had been with Bell and the others.
Also Tuesday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg went to the Bell family's church in Queens, where he met for about an hour with the parents and fiancee of the victim, along with the Rev. Al Sharpton. The mayor then met in a restaurant with about 50 community leaders.
He held a similar meeting Monday in City Hall, where he declared that the officers appeared to use "excessive force." He stood by his comments Tuesday.
"I am a civilian. I am not a professional law enforcement officer," he said. "I used the word 'excessive,' and that's fine. That was my personal opinion. It may turn out to be that it was not excessive."
Some have questioned whether the shooting was racially motivated because the victims were all black men. The five officers who fired their guns included two blacks, two whites and one Hispanic.
Councilman James Sanders Jr. of Queens said he warned Bloomberg about possible unrest.
"I alerted the mayor that the temperature on the streets has increased to a large degree," he said. "While we are sitting in these meetings, a lot of people are out on the streets."
