THE REV. Al Sharpton demanded a "fair and impartial investigation" yesterday into the actions of the cops who shot and killed a young man and wounded two others.
Sharpton pointed out that there was no immediate evidence that 23-year-old 
 and his friends were armed, and condemned cops for arresting and handcuffing the wounded men to their hospital beds.
"I don't want to jump to conclusions, but you have to ask yourself: If these guys were not armed, what would cause this amount of bullets to be fired?" he said. "Clearly, someone has to answer these questions." 
Sharpton consoled Bell's family just as in 2004 when he rallied to the side of 19-year-old Timothy Stansbury's loved ones.
Stansbury was shot dead Jan. 24, 2004, by Officer Richard Neri when the teen opened a door to the roof of a Brooklyn building, surprising the cop on the other side. A grand jury later voted not to indict Neri.
Sharpton stopped short of saying that yesterday's shooting was racially motivated, and he did not invoke the name of Stansbury or Amadou Diallo, an unarmed West African who was shot dead by four plainclothes Bronx cops in February 1999.
But he compared the shooting to the "New Jersey Four."
In that 1998 incident, four young men - black and Hispanic - were pulled over for speeding on the New Jersey Turnpike. State troopers shot and wounded three of the men and later said the men had tried to run them down. Sharpton used the incident to focus attention on racial profiling.
In yesterday's shooting, two of the cops who fired are black, two are white and one is Hispanic, the NYPD said. All were on duty in civilian clothes.
After becoming a Democratic presidential contender in 2004 and getting into an international war of words with Mexican President Vicente Fox over perceived racial insensitivity last year, Sharpton yesterday once again found himself in long-familiar New York City territory: a police shooting, black victims and many unanswered questions.
Sharpton learned of the shooting while driving to his National Action Network in Harlem. His cell phone rang about 9:45 a.m., and the caller, a cousin of the man who was killed, said cops had shot three unarmed black men.
Sharpton headed to Jamaica Hospital, where Bell died on his wedding day. On the way, Sharpton called Deputy Mayor Dennis Walcott, "to let him know I was very concerned and that I was going to the hospital."
"There's something about this that doesn't smell right," Sharpton told Walcott, whose office said he went to the shooting scene yesterday morning.
City Hall officials refused to say where Mayor Bloomberg was yesterday, but a source said he had been scheduled to play golf in Bermuda. "The mayor was briefed on the incident early this morning, and he and his senior staff have been monitoring the situation all day," Bloomberg spokesman Matthew Kelly said.
Last night, another spokesman said the mayor had spoken to Sharpton by phone.
Sharpton met with Bell's family and called back Walcott. He told the deputy mayor that he wanted police "to - as soon as possible - let these families know what is happening here."
Sharpton then drove to Mary Immaculate Hospital to meet with the wounded men. He pledged to hold a prayer vigil at noon today at the hospital.
tmoore@nydailynews.com
