BLACK police officers rounded on their chief last night as the crisis grew over the New York killing of a young groomtobe on his wedding day.
A powerful group called 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement Who Care issued a vote of no confidence in police chief Raymond Kelly as the tough Jamaica area of the city simmered with anger.
The group, which has grown to several thousand members since its launch in 1995, is made up of lawyers, police and probation officers. 
Amid angry demonstrations, the city's billionaire mayor, Michael Bloomberg, flew from his Bermuda mansion to take personal control and meet black community leaders.
 23, died when police fired 50 shots at his car as he and a group of friends, all unarmed, left a nightclub after his stag party.
Two of his friends were still in hospital last night. One is fighting for his life with 11 bullet wounds.
Mr Bloomberg said he was 'deeply disturbed' by the tragedy. He told community leaders: 'It is unacceptable or inexplicable how you can have 50-odd shots fired'.
Bishop Lester Williams, who had been due to marry Mr Bell and his childhood sweetheart Nicole Paultre, 22, said: 'It's like the Wild, Wild West.
'Fifty shots, and no one is shooting back at you? That's an execution. It's like putting these young men in front of a firing squad.' Demonstrators branded the police chief Machine- Gun Kelly because so many shots were fired in the 10 seconds of mayhem early on Saturday.
The Reverend Al Sharpton, an activist and former presidential candidate, said: 'It's black victimisation again this would not have happened if the groom and his friends had been white.' He told a crowd: 'We cannot allow this kind of thing to continue to happen. We've got to understand that all of us were in that car.' Miss Paultre quietly visited the scene of the shooting before dawn yesterday. She lit candles placed around a photograph of her and Mr Bell smiling happily with one of their two daughters.
Bishop Williams said: 'The family are in extreme shock.
The young lady called me and said, "Can I still be married?".' Mayor Bloomberg phoned Miss Paultre to express his condolences. He also contacted local councillor Leroy Comrie, who said: 'The mayor wanted to assure me we would get to the bottom of what happened.' Police refused to discuss the shooting because Queens District Attorney Richard Brown is investigating.
He plans to take the case to a grand jury 'within days' to see if the officers involved should face murder or manslaughter charges.
Unofficially, police denied that race played a part in the shootings. Of the five policemen involved, one is a black Hispanic, two are Afro-American and two are white.
One of the white officers fired 31 bullets at the car, twice reloading his 9mm pistol with a new 15-round ammunition clip.
Police said initially that the shooting began after Mr Bell drove his Nissan car at an undercover vice squad officer who had been part of a surveillanceoperation at the club, then rammed a van carrying other officers.
The backup officers were said to have thought they were under fire from the people in the car.
But police sources said yesterday the bullets had in fact been fired by the undercover officer, on the other side of Mr Bell's car, and had gone straight through it.
The police version was also challenge by an eyewitness, however, deepening the anger in the black community.
Nightclub dancer Trini Wright, 28, told the New York Daily News: 'The police van came around the corner and smashed into their car.
'The cops jumped out shooting. There was no "Stop!" No "Freeze." No nothing.' Mr Bell's cousin Kinglarry Crawford, 35, said Miss Paultre's father had been planning to buy the newlyweds a home 800 miles from New York in Atlanta, Georgia.
He said Mr Bell had wanted to raise his children in a quieter area with more opportunities.
