Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly has overseen the streets of New York for the last five years in the style of a global warrior against terrorism. With a self-confidence that strikes some people as imperious, and some as impressive, Mr. Kelly has created a network of police officials overseas, recruited former C.I.A. officers and built a 1,000-member terror unit.
  Yet over the last few days, Mr. Kelly has had to return to an earlier, less-novel role: the face of a police department involved in yet another public furor, this one a fatal shooting that has the makings of a combustible controversy involving race, politics and the police use of deadly force.
Mr. Kelly's role in the investigation and his handling of that shooting in Jamaica, Queens last Saturday, in which a young black bridegroom died, has all but been a flashback to his first tour as commissioner, in 1992 and 1993. Then, as the choice of New York's first black mayor in the aftermath of confrontations in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Mr. Kelly took charge at a moment of considerable daily violence and raw racial emotion, in a city of metastasizing mistrust between black and Hispanic New Yorkers and police officers. 
  Those tensions have in some ways eased, and Mr. Kelly's relationship with police critics like the Rev. Al Sharpton is good enough that the two men talked just hours after the Queens shooting. The commissioner said in an interview: ''We have an arms-length relationship, but we've dealt with each other for years, and I've always found him to be forthright. He is telling it as he sees it, and not being duplicitous in any way. I think he would say the same about me.''
  Mr. Kelly also took the more forceful step of putting the five officers who together fired 50 rounds in the 4 a.m. confrontation with the group of young black and Hispanic men on paid administrative leave and stripping them of their weapons. 
  But the return to this delicate public role as a truly local commissioner also brings new complications for Mr. Kelly, 65. He is routinely discussed in political circles as a possible candidate for mayor in 2009, something he has not ruled out, and his actions are apt to be seen as having potential political consequences.
  He is also, for the moment, caught between a mayor who has called the shooting ''inexplicable,'' an array of black leaders who want answers that Mr. Kelly has yet to deliver, and his own officers.
  ''This is a tough situation for everybody involved, and especially Ray,'' said former Mayor David N. Dinkins, who named Mr. Kelly commissioner more than a decade ago. ''He's a straight arrow and I would expect the best from him. There's also a lot of people who expect a lot from Ray in this.''
  Mr. Kelly said that he is as comfortable as ever being the face of the police in a controversy, though he is not so cocky as to predict outcomes.
  ''I think you build relationships, and you can go back to other incidents perhaps where people relied on something I've said or I've done, and hopefully that's built up a certain level of trust,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''You hope that is something that is going to play a role.''
  ''I've always prided myself on being forthright and open with the community, and not holding very much back -- what you see is what you get with me,'' he added.
  In the hours after the shooting and since then, Mr. Kelly has been more visible than usual in his take-charge role, and it has been far from simple.
  He was at the scene in Queens within hours of the shooting, and spent the day gathering details and sharing them with the mayor's office, other leaders, and Mr. Sharpton, who was designated as an adviser by the family of the slain man, 
 Mr. Kelly delivered the city's explanation of the shooting, at a news conference that night.
  The next day, Sunday, Mr. Kelly took the guns from the officers.
  ''There were, and are, still too many unanswered questions,'' Mr. Kelly said in the interview. ''It's a privilege to have a gun; you don't have a right to have a gun.''
  And on Monday, the commissioner calmly answered his critics at a private meeting with black leaders and department critics, including one who called for Mr. Kelly's resignation. He also found himself standing by as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg described the 50 shots that killed Mr. Bell as unacceptable.
  Later that day, on an NY1 News political talk show, Mr. Kelly was no longer discussing Qaeda sleeper cells and was instead trying to address all sides in the Queens case. 
  ''The mayor is certainly entitled to his opinion,'' he said on NY1. ''I think we need an in-depth examination of all the facts. It is unusual to have this number of shots fired.''
  Explaining police culture in pithy, made-for-television language is not always a skill commissioners possess, but it is a trademark of Mr. Kelly's -- not to mention a political asset, said Lee Brown, who preceded Mr. Kelly as commissioner under Mr. Dinkins.
  ''Ray brings, to any issue, his experience as a well-educated, well-trained, well-disciplined former marine who knows how to talk like people talk,'' Mr. Brown said. ''When things occur, like his work with us in restoring calm in Crown Heights, you can expect him to stand on that foundation.''
  Mr. Kelly has earned some praise for sharing information with sometime critics like Mr. Sharpton, even if doing so made him seem unconcerned with irritating some of Mr. Sharpton's detractors in his department. 
  Mr. Sharpton had his own blunt way of saying what is still at stake for Mr. Kelly. 
  ''Ray Kelly's word is seen as good in a lot of our community, but now his word is on trial,'' Mr. Sharpton said. ''He has to come up with more definitive answers about why this young man was shot and killed in Queens. I think this is the greatest challenge of his career. It could result in Ray Kelly having a halo around his head, or the undoing of a very popular image.''
  But there are also skeptics, and there is anger. Complaints about Mr. Kelly this week have boiled down to this: Despite his personal touch, relations between the police and minorities remain in many ways strained, and sometimes explosive.
  ''Ray Kelly may be the same man who was police commissioner under Mayor Dinkins, but I think he is a different kind of commissioner today, and that worries me,'' said the Rev. Charles L. Norris, pastor of Bethesda Missionary Baptist Church, in Jamaica. ''I'm not confident anymore that he is solving the problem.'' 
  Mr. Kelly said he has a long history inside the department and as a government official in Washington of improving the culture of agencies, combating racial profiling, and holding his own people accountable. He also said his diplomatic skills in times of crisis have not atrophied in the years that his focus has been pulled toward domestic security, an effort that is without precedent in the department.
  He cited the case of Timothy Stansbury Jr., the unarmed 19-year-old who was fatally shot by a police officer in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, in 2004, as an instance in which, early on, he judged a shooting to be unjustified.
  ''In the Stansbury case, we had information because of statements from the nonshooting officers, so we put out the information,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''We don't have enough information yet in this case. I make a determination about what to say based only on the facts.'' 
  Some observers have said that Mr. Kelly's recent reimmersion into the world of shootings and racial politics and the perceptions of police officers in southeast Queens, rather than those in Scotland Yard, may have a political payoff if he indeed runs for mayor. Mr. Kelly said he was not thinking about 2009, but declined to flatly rule out a bid. If it is not on Mr. Kelly's mind, though, his performance this week nevertheless has displayed some political prowess.
  ''I think the way he conducts himself in front of the press, acting as the objective conveyer of information, while still appealing to everybody to reserve judgment, shows how he would handle a city crisis, political or otherwise,'' said Richard Aborn, president of the Citizens Crime Commission, a nonpartisan group that monitors police policies in New York. ''You can't see every police commissioner as a political candidate, but you can with Ray.''
