EVEN IF THEY VIOLATED NYPD guidelines, the cops under investigation for shooting three unarmed men may not have broken the law, experts said yesterday.
Though a Queens grand jury is expected to consider a range of charges beginning with second-degree murder, the cops are more likely to be found guilty of department infractions - while the city foots the bill for the costly wrongful-death and negligence suits that are sure to come. 
"The history is that it is extraordinarily hard to criminally prosecute officers who were on duty," said Eugene O'Donnell, professor of police science at CUNY's John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
Cops have faced criminal trials, such as those involved in the high-profile deaths of Anthony Baez and Amadou Diallo, with mixed results.
"In most of these cases, justice comes to the families in the form of [civil] lawsuit damages," said O'Donnell, a former Bronx cop.
Though Mayor Bloomberg called the amount of firepower used "unacceptable or inexplicable," it might not rise to the level of a crime, Jim Cohen, a professor of criminal law at Fordham Law School, told The Associated Press.
"The number of shots fired doesn't mean anything, even though it seems a little shocking," Cohen added. "We simply don't have enough information to draw any conclusions."
But another John Jay professor, Jeanne Thelwell, said the apparent failure to follow NYPD guidelines could clear the way for a successful civil suit.
"Simply the fact that they did not stop after three shots might be enough for a civil judgment," she said.
Soon after the deadly encounter in Jamaica early Saturday, attorneys were in abundance to represent families and survivors.
Slain groom 
 parents and the family of wounded victim Joseph Guzman retained noted negligence lawyer Sanford Rubenstein and Michael Hardy, both long associated with the Rev. Al Sharpton.
Rubenstein previously represented Abner Louima, who was beaten and sodomized by cops in 1997, in a successful civil suit against the city.
"At this stage we're not looking at the lawsuit aspect at all," insisted Manhattan lawyer Kareem Vessup, whose firm was retained Monday night to represent the family of victim Trent Benefield, who is also hospitalized with gunshot wounds.
According to O'Donnell, the Police Department could charge the five officers with misconduct, and penalties would range from termination to retraining.
tmoore@nydailynews.com
