The morning team at WRKS (98.7 FM) conducts one of radio's most tangible holiday-help projects tomorrow with its "Kiss Cares Coat Drive."
Listeners are asked to bring winter coats - which can be used, as long as they're still wearable - to the Alvin Ailey Dance Studio, W. 55th St. and Ninth Ave.
They are distributed directly to people who need coats, primarily at homeless shelters. 
"It sounds like such a simple thing that a lot of us probably don't even think about it," says morning co-host Jeff Foxx. "But there are a lot of people, too many people, who don't have a coat. You have kids going to school without a warm coat, which means they're much more likely to get sick."
The Coat Drive runs 6 a.m.-6 p.m., and the morning team - Foxx, Shaila, Talent, Bob Slade - plan to stay around.
"You can get pretty silly by 3 o'clock," says Foxx. "But whatever you do is worth it when you see the look on the face of a kid when you give him a coat."
This will be the fourth clothing drive, which has gathered up to 13,000 coats.
And by the way, Foxx adds, listeners are also invited to bring turtlenecks.
"Talent wants to do Turtlenecks for Toddlers," he says. "So that's part of it, too."
CROSSOVER'S BACK: E. Reese Hopkins, better known as Crossover Negro Reese on the Star & Buc Wild show, is returning to WWPR (105.1 FM) this morning to join the Egypt and Ashy (Donnell Rawlins) morning team.
Hopkins, who will now just be "Crossover" on the air, will be doing news segments and joining the general conversation.
He also won't be coming back quietly. "I plan to call people out on the assassination of 
" he said, referring to the young man killed by police fire Saturday outside a Queens strip club.
Specifically, he says, he wants to spotlight the role of City Council members who did not heed a neighborhood petition asking that the club not be allowed to open there in the first place.
"It's too easy just to blame an entity like 'the police,' " said Crossover. "Police officers are human beings just like all of us, and they make mistakes. We need to look closely at a picture like this, identify who did or didn't do what and make everyone take responsibility."
Crossover left Star's show on WWPR 14 months ago. He said he's "delighted that [WWPR program director] Helen Little and [Clear Channel senior vice president] Tom Poleman are giving me an opportunity to come back. I never realized how addictive this is."
BAD BOY'S BACK, TOO: Michael Baisden, the self-proclaimed "baddest man on radio," returned yesterday afternoon to WRKS (98.7 FM), saying, "The grown-folks party is back."
Baisden didn't immediately explain why he was off the air for the last month, calling it a "little hiatus" during which he continued to host live events.
His absence sparked a blizzard of rumors, which Baisden derided yesterday.
"Sorry to disappoint all you haters out there," he said. "But I'm not fired - this party's still going down."
WDIA HISTORY: We noted here yesterday the death of John R. Pepper II, who put the country's first all-black format on WDIA in Memphis back in 1948.
The station has compiled a fascinating double-CD set of its history, starting with early airchecks by hosts like Nat D. Williams. It's a great slice of radio, and Rufus Thomas' ad for "Pink Pussy Cat Wine" is worth the price all by itself.
For info, go to www.am1070wdia.com.
AROUND THE DIAL: The Writers Guild of America, which represents newswriters at WCBS-AM (880) and WINS (1010 AM) among other places, has overwhelmingly rejected a contract offer from CBS that would have run through August 2010. Guild officials recommended the proposal be rejected, which CBS called "unfortunate." ... Jamie Lee is returning this weekend to WPLJ (95.5 FM), where she will be hosting the all-request "Saturday Night '80s," 7-midnight. ... Former President Jimmy Carter guests tomorrow morning at 7:10 with Joe Bartlett and Donna Hanover on WOR (710 AM).
