Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg went to Queens yesterday to meet the parents and fiancee of 
 the 23-year-old man killed in a hail of police bullets on Saturday, as he continued his efforts to soothe tensions in the aftermath of the shooting.
  During his private meeting with the family, which lasted nearly an hour, Mr. Bloomberg sat in a front pew at the Community Church of Christ, in Jamaica, with Mr. Bell's parents, William and Valerie. Nicole Paultre, who was to have married Mr. Bell on Saturday, later joined them, as did her mother.
Nearby, in the church's sanctuary, were the Rev. Al Sharpton, State Senator Malcolm A. Smith, Deputy Mayor Dennis M. Walcott and the church's pastor, Bishop Lester L. Williams. In separate television interviews, Mr. Williams said he had invited the mayor to attend Mr. Bell's funeral on Friday, but Mr. Bell's mother said she would prefer to have only close friends and family. 
  ''I tried to express my deepest sympathies for their loss,'' the mayor said at a news conference. ''I don't think that any parent can understand what it would be like to lose a child until it happens, and I just pray that for most of us parents, we never find out.'' He added, ''There's nothing the mayor can do to bring back their son or their fiance.''
  While some have called for rapid action in the case, the Queens district attorney, Richard A. Brown, who is leading the investigation, acknowledged that some community leaders he met with on Monday might have been disappointed when he told them that the inquiry was in its most preliminary stages.
  ''They didn't hear what it is perhaps they wanted to hear, that it would be immediately presented to a grand jury and that we would immediately seek an indictment,'' he said. ''There is just a great deal of work that needs to be done before we can make any judgments with respect to where we're going.''
  Mr. Brown said he could not discuss specifics of the case, despite the public interest. ''My primary responsibility is to ensure that nothing compromises or prejudices my investigation,'' he said. ''And a discussion of that which purportedly occurred, based, in many instances, on preliminary information and in unsubstantiated facts, would be inconsistent with that responsibility.''
  There were no signs that the furor over the shooting would die down soon. Mr. Sharpton announced last night that he would visit the scene of the shooting today with the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson and Ms. Paultre. Also yesterday, Amnesty International USA, the human-rights group, called the shooting ''part of a pattern of questionable police tactics and abuse.''
  Local N.A.A.C.P. officials held a news conference last night and said they would call on the United States Justice Department to investigate whether there were any federal civil rights violations in the shooting. ''Every rule in the book was violated in this case,'' said Leroy Gadsden of the N.A.A.C.P.'s Jamaica branch. 
  After leaving the church yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg traveled to Thomasina Catering in St. Albans to meet with about 50 community leaders. Afterwards, at the news conference, the mayor acknowledged that relations between the police and the community were far from perfect.
  ''There were people that stood up and said we've made a lot of progress and there were people that stood up and said we have a long ways to go,'' the mayor said. ''And I think both of those groups were right on target.''
  With Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly at his side, Mr. Bloomberg also conceded that many black New Yorkers believe that the Police Department practices racial profiling, although it is prohibited by city policy. ''There's a feeling among an awful lot of people that kids, particularly teenagers, young men, get stopped based on the color of their skin, and the commissioner and I both said that that is, No. 1, not the policy.'' 
  Despite facing criticism from two police unions, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association and the Detectives' Endowment Association, Mayor Bloomberg defended his decision to characterize the shooting as ''excessive.'' But the mayor said, ''I am a civilian, I'm not a professional law-enforcement officer,'' and added, ''That was my personal opinion.''
  Mr. Kelly declined to characterize the shooting. ''I can't afford to have a visceral reaction,'' he said. ''I'm in charge of a 52,000-person organization. I'm also the final determiner as far as discipline is concerned in any process that goes forward. So I reiterate that I think we need this investigation to go forward as quickly as possible.''
  But after Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant, died in a hail of 41 police bullets in 1999, it took nearly two months for the Bronx district attorney to obtain murder indictments against four officers from a grand jury. Then, the trial was moved to Albany after an appellate court ruled that the officers could not receive a fair trial in New York because of huge demonstrations there. The officers were acquitted in 2000. 
  Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Manhattan Democrat, said at a breakfast with business leaders that a prolonged investigation could fuel anger. ''This is a very bad period for the mayor and the Police Department, because they can't give any answers,'' he said, adding that he hoped Mr. Brown ''realizes that he, too, has a responsibility to answer to the people of New York City.''
  Senator Smith, who was at the Monday meeting with Mr. Brown, said he had urged the district attorney to move quickly. ''We understood and respected his desire not to compromise that process, or end up going too fast and blowing the case, but we believe he has to move expeditiously,'' he said. 
  Mr. Kelly said yesterday that the undercover officer who fired the first shot on Saturday might have had a drink, but that drink would have been consumed at least three hours before the shooting, he said.
  Participants in the meeting with Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Kelly offered a mix of reactions. ''I think the mayor was being open and candid,'' said Manuel Caughman, an aide to Assemblyman William Scarborough. ''He told us as much information as possible.'' 
  Others expressed frustration. Dorothy N. Ogundu, a physician, urged the police to improve training. ''Let's pray over the dead, but first, let's help the living,'' she said. ''Let's make sure one more person doesn't die unnecessarily like this.'' 
  Still others said they believed the meeting was held mostly to keep them quiet. ''Underneath, we're not calm,'' said Irene Marcelle, a retired school counselor. ''We don't feel the mechanisms are at work to really bring peace and justice.''
  Robert A. U. Hogan, president of the residents association at the Baisley Park public housing project, noted the absence of young people at the meeting. ''No one in that room,'' he said, ''is going through what the young people are going through in this community.''
