THE tragic death of 

 and the shooting of Trent Benefield andJoe Guzman, gives us pause to contemplate how fragile and precious humanlife is. 
Sean's death has taken a terrible toll on his family and friends, and wepray for his parents, fiance and especially his two young children. I amalso deeply concerned about the impact this tragedy has had on ourcommunity. 
Many people in our city are justifiably angered by this tragedy. We allrecognize, as the mayor has already noted, that firing 50 shots in thissituation was excessive. It also appears that at least one policeregulation (which prohibits firing at a moving vehicle) was broken thenight Sean was killed. We also need to carefully review the policy thatpermits undercover police officers to drink while on duty, even if it'spart of their undercover efforts.  
Clearly, this tragedy highlights a serious problem, either with policeprocedures and policies or with the actions of the officers on duty thatnight. We do recognize that the highly-charged, frightening and emotionalatmosphere of that night also played a role in the shooting. But it isabsolutely imperative that our community is able to place our faith in theprofessionalism of our police force, and know that they will act accordingto their internal rules and the rule of law, even in stressful situations. 
After meeting with Mayor Bloomberg, District Attorney Richard Brown andPolice Commissioner Ray Kelly, I am confident that their investigationswill be thorough and will uncover what went wrong and who is responsible - as well as what must be done to prevent this from happening again. 
However, until those investigations are complete, we should focus ourenergy on helping Sean's family as best we can and getting to the truth sothat something positive might come from this terrible tragedy. 
During a prayer service yesterday morning at the site of the shooting, Ijoined with Sean's fiance Nicole Paultre, his parents and the Revs. JesseJackson and Al Sharpton and I asked that everyone who has been hurt andangered by Sean's killing remain patient until the DA can deliver hisfindings. 
Of course it is not always easy to remain calm and patient in theaftermath of such an emotional incident. All too often, it is young men ofcolor, such as Sean, who find themselves the victims of police misconduct -a frustrating and frightening reality the minority community faces everyday. 
However, I believe we will only hamper the investigation and negate thegood that could come of it if we look at this solely as a racial incident.We must remind ourselves that the undercover officers were a racially mixedteam and that this is more a matter of what's right or wrong with thesystem. 
This is about policy and procedures that have to be followed when yougive authority to individuals, who we must trust and believe in so that wecan create and manage a civil society. 
In my meetings with Revs. Jackson and Sharpton, Reps. Charles Rangel andGregory Meeks, City Council Speaker Christine Quinn and Councilman LeroyComrie, we are discussing the possibility of a tri-level task force -  withelected officials from federal, state and local levels -  that wouldcarefully examine this tragedy and look for solutions that might help usavoid another senseless death. 
In the meantime, I hope that all residents of our great city and greatstate will keep Sean's family in their prayers and do whatever possible tohelp them cope with their loss and sorrow. And rather than acting orjudging in haste, I hope that we can all let the DA do his work. 
Sean's legacy can be something more than a wasted life of greatpotential. His tragic death can help our society develop better policiesand techniques that will assure a crisis of this nature does not happenagain. We must and can do better. 
Malcolm A. Smith, D-Queens, is the minority leader of New York's stateSenate.   
