COMMUNITY LEADERS ANGRY OVER FATAL POLICE SHOOTING
NEW YORK - An angry crowd demanded Sunday to know why New York City police officers killed an unarmed man on the day of his wedding, firing dozens of shots that also wounded two of the man's friends.
Some called for the ouster of the city's police commissioner.
At a vigil and rally the day after 23-year-old 
 was supposed to have married the mother of his two young children, a crowd led by Rev. Al Sharpton shouted: "No justice, no peace."
At one point, the crowd of a few hundred counted to 50, the number of rounds fired. 
"We cannot allow this to continue to happen," Sharpton said at the gathering outside Mary Immaculate Hospital, where one of the wounded men was in critical condition.
"We've got to understand that all of us were in that car."
The shootings occurred at about 4 a.m. Saturday outside the Kalua Cabaret, a strip club where Bell's bachelor party was held. The survivors were Joseph Guzman, 31, who was shot at least 11 times, and Trent Benefield, 23, who was hit three times. Guzman was in critical condition Sunday and Benefield was stable.
The car, driven by Bell, was struck by 21 of the police bullets after the vehicle rammed an undercover officer and hit an unmarked NYPD minivan. Other shots hit nearby homes and shattered windows at a train station, though no one else was injured.
Police thought one of the men in the car might have had a gun but investigators found no weapons.
EXTREMIST CHARGED WITH ATTEMPTING TO MURDER
BELFAST, Northern Ireland - The Protestant extremist who triggered a panicked evacuation of the Northern Ireland Assembly was charged Saturday with attempting to murder four people, including Sinn Fein leaders Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness.
Michael Stone, who was tackled by unarmed guards Friday at the entrance to Stormont Parliamentary Building, was arraigned in Belfast Magistrates Court on five charges of attempted murder. He also was charged with possession of weapons for terrorist purposes, including explosives, several nail bombs, an axe, a strangulation device and a fake handgun.
Stone has been an icon of Protestant extremism in Northern Ireland since March 16, 1988, when, armed with handguns and grenades, he single-handedly attacked more than 20,000 mourners at an IRA funeral. He killed three people, including an IRA member, and wounded about 60 others before running out of bullets and grenades.
Stone was convicted in 1989 of six murders among other offences and sentenced to more than 700 years in prison. He was paroled in mid-2000 as part of the U.S.-brokered Good Friday peace accord of 1998.
Britain's Northern Ireland Office said Saturday its legal advisers have drafted a revocation order requiring Stone to resume serving his previous sentence, an action virtually certain to confine him for years even before the new charges are resolved.
ITALY'S BERLUSCONI FEELS 'FINE' AFTER COLLAPSE
ROME - Italy's former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi collapsed briefly Sunday while making a political speech in a stuffy sports hall but later insisted he was feeling better, Italian media reported.
"I'm doing fine, I'm doing fine," Berlusconi, 70, was quoted as saying by the ANSA news agency at his home near the northern city of Milan, hours after dramatic live television pictures showed him closing his eyes and slowly collapsing at a podium as he gave a speech.
"The fatigue, the heat, the (cartilage) operation I had" in November led him to faint as he addressed political supporters in Montecatini, near Florence on Sunday, the right-wing former premier said.
"But all these things, even together, are nothing serious," he added.
The media magnate is to remain in hospital in Milan for a day under observation because, he said, doctors "saw something on the electrocardiogram."
'ADOLF HITLER' ATTACKS JEWISH SCHOOL IN VIENNA
VIENNA - A man who apparently gave his name as Adolf Hitler wrecked a Jewish school in Vienna early Sunday, shattering windows and doors and attacking washroom facilities with an iron bar, police said.
It was unclear, however, whether the attack against the Lauder Chabat school was an anti-Semitic act, or whether the suspect, who said he was Croatian but refused to reveal his identity, was mentally disturbed, said Ariel Muzicant, president of the Jewish community.
"You ask yourself anyway what a man is thinking when he attacks a school like this and causes so much destruction," Muzicant added.
OFFENDING CANINES COULD GET CRIMINAL RECORDS
BRUSSELS - Misbehaving Belgian dogs could find themselves with a "criminal record" under a new parliamentary proposal, with offenders facing anything from a rap on the paws to the death penalty, according to a newspaper report Saturday.
Under the proposal, adopted by the Senate upper house's social affairs committee, dogs and their owners would both come under scrutiny, with anyone who has served a six-month sentence for a violent crime banned from owning a dog.
If a dog bites anyone, as happens some 100,000 times a year in Belgium, a local official could sentence the canine offender to anything from a reprimand to the death sentence from the local burgomeister.
The culprit could even be seized from his kennel without the need for a search warrant.
"Our goal is to prevent accidents, without targeting any particular breed," Senator Jean-Marie Cheffert told Le Soir daily.
'AL-QAEDA LEADER' IN DAGESTAN KILLED
MAKHACHKALA, Russia - Russian forces killed five people including a Jordanian described as an Al-Qaeda leader when shooting broke out at a house in the Caspian province of Dagestan, security sources said.
The clash occurred as forces from Russia's interior ministry and the FSB security service conducted a check on a house in the town of Khasavyurt, an official from the ministry's branch in Dagestan, near the restive province of Chechnya, told journalists at the scene.
"Firing came from the house at 6 a.m. (0300 GMT) and the building was surrounded. A special operation was begun to destroy the attackers. It lasted from 6 a.m. until 10 a.m.," the official said.
One of the five killed was Jordanian fighter Abu-Khavs, a leading Al-Qaeda representative in the Russian Caucasus, the deputy head of the FSB's Dagestan branch Mikhail Merkulov said on national television.
LEFTIST CLAIMS VICTORY IN PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
QUITO - Leftist economist Rafael Correa claimed victory in Ecuador's presidential election Sunday as a projection and exit polls showed him holding a lead of about 14 percentage points over his conservative rival.
"Thank God, we have triumphed," Correa, 43, told cheering supporters in Quito.
Conservative tycoon Alvaro Noboa dismissed exit polls showing his rival Correa won Ecuador's run-off presidential election.
"I believe in the actual result of the vote-by-vote count," he told Canal 10 television.
Asked if he would recognize the official outcome if it confirms his rival's victory, Noboa said: "Once everything is cleared up and if I am convinced, I will recognize it, otherwise, I won't recognize it."
AT LEAST 53 MINERS DEAD IN COAL MINE EXPLOSIONS
BEIJING - Explosions in two Chinese coal mines have left at least 53 workers dead and six missing, China's Xinhua News Agency and safety officials said Sunday.
Both blasts occurred the same day and together represent the highest reported death toll for one day in China's notoriously dangerous mines in recent weeks.
INDIAN CITY TO OUTLAW RICKSHAW RUNNERS
KOLKATA, India - They have been a feature of Kolkata's streets for more than a century, but communist authorities in the sprawling city want an end to the "inhuman" sight of emaciated men pulling rickshaws.
The communist-ruled state of West Bengal plans to introduce legislation that will phase out back-breaking rickshaw-pulling in the city of 13 million people, increasingly known as a high-tech centre.
"This inhuman mode of transport should have stopped years ago," said communist city Mayor Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya.
