The Atlantic Coast Conference appears poised to win its eighth straight ACC-Big Ten Challenge.
The ACC took a 4-2 lead in the 11-game series by winning three of five games last night.
One of the ACC victories, however, was a surprisingly close 77-73 win by No. 21 Georgia Tech over unranked Penn State.
No. 23 Maryland also earned a triumph for the ACC with a 72-66 victory over Illinois. 
No. 11 Duke got the ACC's other victory last night, but the Blue Devils' 54-51 win over Indiana was not easy. 
The Big Ten got wins last night by No. 12 Wisconsin over Florida State, 81-66, and by Northwestern over Miami (Fla.), 61-59.
The Challenge started Monday with North Carolina State's 74-67 victory over Michigan.
The final five games in the Challenge are set for tonight. The games are: Michigan State at Boston College, Virginia at Purdue, Iowa at Virginia Tech, Ohio State at North Carolina and Clemson at Minnesota. The ACC needs to win just two of those five games to again win the Challenge.ACC-BIG TEN CHALLENGEPSU HANGS TOUGH: At Atlanta, Lewis Clinch scored 20 points and Anthony Morrow's late free throws sealed the win for Georgia Tech.
Jamelle Cornley led the Nittany Lions (4-2) with 20 points. Ben Luber, who added nine assists, hit two straight 3-pointers, the last coming with 44.4 seconds remaining, to keep Penn State close. Danny Morrissey's 3 from the left wing cut the lead to 74-71 with 21.1 seconds remaining.
The Nittany Lions had to monitor the minutes of star forward Geary Claxton, who came off the bench in just his second game since returning from a broken hand. Claxton had 30 starts in each of the last two seasons and averaged 15.2 points and 7.5 rebounds as a sophomore.
In 28 minutes, Claxton had 12 points and six rebounds. His layin with 3:58 remaining cut the lead to 67-61.
"Claxton is still limited," Penn State coach Ed DeChellis said. "He has this thing on his hand and he can't shoot the basketball (effectively from the perimeter), and he can't drive it right-handed. We tried to get him around the basket. We tried to get him in the post."
The Nittany Lions fell to 1-16 against ranked opponents under DeChellis. Now in his fourth season at Penn State, DeChellis has a 5-28 overall road record.
"I think we have improved since a week ago when we played," DeChellis said. "Is it a moral victory? No, it's still miserable. It's a loss, but I thought we did some positive things."
FRESHMAN LEADS TERPS: In Champaign, Ill., Maryland freshman Greivis Vasquez wasn't bothered by Illinois' loud homecourt that has been intimidating to visiting non-conference schools for eight years.
Terps teammate Mike Jones even likened the atmosphere to the raucous one at Duke's Cameron Indoor Stadium.
Tuning out the orange-clad partisans, Vasquez and Jones helped Maryland end Illinois' 51-game non-conference winning streak at Assembly Hall dating back to 1988.
"I'm not afraid. I'm ready for this," Vasquez said after scoring 15 of his 17 points in the second half as the Terps recovered after blowing a 15-point lead.
"I'm from Venezuela, and I didn't come here just to sit on the bench. I came here to play," Vasquez said.
Vasquez's steal and layup with 1:22 left to play gave the Terps the 65-60 lead.
With Jones scoring 19 and Vasquez playing like an experienced veteran, Maryland was able to overcome the absence of shot blocker and rebounder Ekene Ibekwe, who sat out with an ankle injury. The Terps' 8-0 start is their best since the 1988-89 team won its first 10.
"I don't feel like a hero," Vasquez said. "I was just helping my team win."
Illinois (7-1) had 18 points from Shaun Pruitt.
NELSON PACES DUKE: In Durham, N.C., DeMarcus Nelson scored 19 points as Duke held on to beat Indiana .
Freshman Jon Scheyer had 10 points for the Blue Devils (6-1), who extended their nonconference home winning streak to 45 games and remained the only unbeaten team in the eight-year history of the Challenge. The win also gave Hall of Fame coach Mike Krzyzewski his 759th career victory, tying him with Western Kentucky's Ed Diddle for 10th on the all-time list.
Freshman Armon Bassett scored 16 points to lead the Hoosiers (3-2), who rallied from a 12-point halftime deficit.
TUCKER SPARKS WISCON SIN: In Madison, Wis., Alando Tucker scored 22 points, including 18 after being poked in the eye, and Wisconsin beat Florida State.
The Badgers (6-1) took advantage in a physical game by capitalizing on sloppy play by Florida State (4-2), which turned the ball over 21 times.
Kammron Taylor scored 18 points and Brian Butch added 13 for the battered Badgers. Toney Douglas scored 24 points, Jason Rich 12 and Al Thornton 10 for Florida State.
MOORE LEADS NORTH WESTERN: At Evanston, Ill., Craig Moore scored a career-high 24 points and Northwestern survived a late surge to beat Miami.
Miami head coach Frank Haith was on the sidelines in the wake of the death of his nephew 
 Bell was killed and two of his friends were wounded Saturday by New York police following Bell's bachelor party at a strip club in Queens.
Miami's Jack McClinton tied a career high with 30 points.MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL NOTEKENNARD-DALE GRAD HONORED: Kennard-Dale High School graduate Charlie Parker was named the Pennsylvania State Athletic Conference (PSAC) East Division Player of the Week.
The Millersville University junior averaged 22.2 points in five games for the Marauders. He became the 34th man in school history to reach the 1,000-point mark on Monday. Against Chowan on Saturday, Parker scored a career-high 32 points.
He is leading the team in assists (26), steals (16), free-throw percentage (90.9) and points per game. The Marauders are 4-1.
