HOURS AFTER 

 was killed in a fusillade of 50 police bullets in Queens, Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said the officers believed Bell and his friends were armed because a cop heard one of them say, "Yo - go get my gun."
Since then, investigators probing the controversial shooting that plunged the city into crisis have tracked down more than 50 witnesses. Kelly has not publicly judged the officers' actions. 
The investigators must answer five crucial questions to determine whether the cops broke the law by shooting the three unarmed men early Saturday.
1 Was the shooting necessary and reasonable?
Law enforcement sources say this is the most crucial question that prosecutors must answer.
State law says a cop can use deadly force when it is "necessary to defend the police officer or peace officer or another person."
NYPD officers are taught to not fire upon a moving vehicle unless there is an additional deadly threat - such as someone inside with a gun.
But Maria Haberfeld, professor of police science at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, said the cops who fired could have believed their lives were in danger because Bell twice rammed his car into their unmarked van near a strip club in Queens.
"We can phrase this any way we want. But in my opinion a moving vehicle is a weapon," said Haberfeld, who specializes in police training and use of force.
2 Did the undercover and plainclothes cops identify themselves as police officers before the shots were fired?
The undercover officer who fired the opening salvo says he pulled the trigger because he believed Bell's pal Joseph Guzman was reaching for a gun in his waistband.
The detective insists he identified himself as a cop by pulling out his shield and screaming "Police!" before any shots were fired.
But Guzman, 31, who was shot 11 times, has told visitors at the hospital that the undercover cop didn't identify himself. Guzman also denied reaching toward his waistband.
No witnesses have come forward yet to say they heard the police identify themselves before the shots were fired.
3 Did anyone shout "Gun!" before the shooting?
Several accounts of the shooting say somebody shouted a warning about a gun moments before the cops began firing.
If a warning was sounded, it's not clear who yelled - one of the cops or Bell and his pals.
Lorenzo Kinred, who was at Bell's bachelor party at the strip club, told the Daily News that Bell and his friends thought the men with guns were street thugs who wanted to attack them.
Kinred said he spoke to Trent Benefield, 23, who was shot three times, before he was put into an ambulance.
"The police didn't identify who they were," Benefield said, according to Kinred, 32. "They just pulled guns out."
"
 [
] saw a guy dressed just like us pulling a gun," Benefield added, Kinred said. "He just wanted to try and drive away."
4 Why did Detective Mike Oliver fire 31 of the 50 shots, even pausing to reload?
Oliver, who had never fired a gun in the line of duty before early Saturday, emptied his semiautomatic handgun.
Police sources say he apparently thought the gun would no longer fire because it was jammed. So he put another clip into the gun and resumed firing.
Attorney Kenneth Thompson, who prosecuted the cops who beat and sodomized Abner Louima in 1997, said the number of bullets fired by cops early Saturday raises questions about whether the shooting was justified.
"The question is, 'Why did they keep firing at him?'" he said. "I don't understand that."
5 Was there a fourth man who ran away from the car? If so, did he have a gun?
Police sources say investigators last night identified a fourth man who had been seen with Bell, near the groom's car, just before the shooting.
The mystery man's picture was picked out of two separate photo lineups. Cops want to talk to the man, who they believe may have fled with a gun.
No weapon has been found, but cops continue to search the crime scene.
tmoore@nydailynews.com
