THE furious crowd was cau  tioned not to forget the les  sons learned from the case of Amadou Diallo. 
"The idea is to show we're with the family, not that the family is with us," the Rev. Al Sharpton told the several hundred people gathered at the Community Church of Christ in Jamaica, Queens, yesterday.  
"This is their burden. We are here to help them and to support them, and if you're so mad that you can't do it, then step back." 
Sharpton was urging supporters to remain level-headed in their protests against the cops who fatally gunned down an unarmed 

 23, a dad of two, on his wedding day Saturday. 
Sharpton said the community must avoid any behavior that could taint a potential jury pool if a case against the officers involved is ever brought to trial. 
He reminded them of Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant who was killed in The Bronx in February 1999, when cops fired 41 shots at him after he reached for a wallet they mistook for a gun. 
The venue in that case was changed to Albany, where the police officers involved were eventually acquitted. 
Bell's mourners remembered that case as they clasped the silver-bell party favors from a wedding that never was. 
Still in shock, Bell's bride-to-be, Nicole Paultre, asked pastor Lester Williams, who was supposed to marry the couple, if he could perform the ceremony anyway so that she could fulfill her promise to Bell and their two small daughters. Williams could not. 
So yesterday, after all the prayers were prayed and all the songs were sung, Nicole followed through on another promise: She joined the church. But not before telling Jada, 3, that Daddy was gone. 
When Sean was alive, he had to console Jada about the death of a puppy, Williams said. 
"He always told Jada, 'When you see the sun, you'll see the puppy,' " Williams said. 
"We had to tell her that Daddy was taking care of the puppy." 
The church where Williams saves souls every Sunday is a long way from Marengo County, Ala., where the bishop grew up. 
It was in Alabama, in searing heat and soaring tension, that Williams saw firsthand the racial struggle that would change his life and the world. 
His adolescence was marked by pivotal moments of the civil-rights movement: the violent Selma-to-Montgomery march over the Edmund Pettus Bridge, the church bombing in Birmingham that killed four little girls. 
He never dreamed he'd be fighting the same fight 40 years later in New York. 
But there was Williams at the pulpit yesterday, consoling a heartbroken family of another unarmed black man gunned down by police in a shooting that has all the hallmarks of unjustifiable homicide. 
"There were some things we endured as children that I thought would have passed and gone," Williams said. 
"I would have thought in 2006, we would have moved beyond this type of racism." 
After Saturday's shooting, Williams recalled, "I said to myself, 'I took it when I was growing up. I'm not taking it anymore.' " 
