It is an upside-down kind of police work, the opposite of the men and women in blue on sunny streets. There is no uniform, and often no gun, no badge, no bulletproof vest, no radio car with lights and sirens. Instead, officers drive rental cars and are armed with city-issued money and a two-drink limit. 
  Undercover police work in the city's nightclubs is a dangerous and vulnerable assignment, the sort of work assigned to the new citywide Club Enforcement Initiative. That unit is under new scrutiny after a police shooting outside a Queens strip club shortly after 4 a.m. on Saturday. 
According to the police, five officers on the club detail shot into the men's Nissan Altima, killing a bridegroom and wounding two of his friends. The officers fired 50 rounds, the police said, after the men struck an officer with the car and twice slammed it into an unmarked police van. Officials have said the officers believed there was a gun in the car, but none was found. 
  The Club Enforcement Initiative was formed after a series of high-profile and violent crimes against people who visited city nightclubs this year, the police said, most recently the July 27 rape and murder of a woman, Jennifer Moore, 18, who was abducted along 12th Avenue after a night in bars and clubs. Her body was found in a garbage bin in New Jersey, near a hotel where the police say she was killed.
  Under orders from the Organized Crime Control Bureau chief, Anthony J. Izzo, several officers from a Manhattan vice squad and the citywide narcotics office were assigned to the new detail, investigating nightclubs that were deemed chronic problems. The unit crossed the river to Queens and other boroughs after the situation in Chelsea stabilized, said Paul J. Browne, a police spokesman. New information from Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly and interviews with former undercover officers described the unusual nature of the work. 
  Marq Claxton retired last year as a detective after 21 years with the department, and worked undercover narcotics operations in Brooklyn and Queens, sometimes unarmed and without a bulletproof vest.
  ''You have to really be prepared,'' Mr. Claxton said. ''You have to know when it's time to turn back around and get out. Sometimes you get a bad feeling.''
  Mr. Claxton is a spokesman for the group 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement Who Care, which has criticized the shooting and raised questions about alcohol consumption on the job, suggesting that officers involved in shootings should undergo medical evaluations to test alcohol levels.
  In the Club Enforcement Initiative, there are two teams of seven officers, said Julian Harper, a former lieutenant who retired in September and is familiar with the operation. Generally, two undercover officers work inside the club, or the ''set,'' while the others work outside as backup for an eventual arrest. The undercover officers are often unarmed, especially when there is a search for weapons at the door. This was the case on Saturday, when the undercover officers left guns, vests and badges outside.
  The officers are allowed two drinks. ''We authorize them to have two drinks, and no more,'' Mr. Kelly said at a news conference. ''This initiative started at one in the morning, so they were there for three hours.''
  To abstain from or refuse alcohol, said those familiar with the unit's tactics, could conceivably tip off other patrons that an undercover operation is taking place.
  The officers are expected to carry hidden transmitters, disguised as pagers or cellphones, which allow them to communicate with the officers outside and record the night's events, Mr. Claxton said. ''You could have a cellphone that's really a transmitter,'' he said. It is unclear whether the officers in the club Saturday carried such devices. 
  In a routine operation, the undercover officers witness illegal activity, like prostitution or drug sales. ''You get into conversations with people who are inside,'' said, Mr. Harper, the retired lieutenant. ''You see if there's anyone dealing drugs. You make agreements with prostitutes.''
  The officer then alerts the officers outside, and ideally, leaves the set, thereby preserving his or her cover while the suspects are arrested.
  This was not the case on Saturday, when one undercover officer, suspecting the men had a gun, left the club and armed himself before following 
 the bridegroom who was killed, and his friends to their car and ordering them to stop, then firing. Mr. Kelly conceded yesterday that such behavior by an undercover officer was unusual, but officials said it was not unheard of. What had started as an investigation of drugs and prostitution now focused on firearms.
  At least one of the two undercover officers inside the bar had had two beers between 1 a.m. and 4 a.m., Commissioner Kelly said. That officer was one of the two who did not fire in the shooting. Five officers from the team of seven fired at the Altima. One officer with 12 years of experience fired 31 rounds. 
  The other undercover officer fired the first shots. Those familiar with that officer's account have said he believed the men were armed. It is unclear if that officer drank in the club. The police have not yet been able to question him while the Queens district attorney conducts an investigation, Mr. Kelly said.
  A commanding officer found all the officers fit for duty -- meaning they showed no signs of being impaired by alcohol -- during the operation outside Club Kalua in Jamaica, the police said. 
  Mr. Claxton said money for the drinks is given to the officers before the operation, and the bills are photocopied, so that all remaining bills can be accounted for later. 
  It was not unusual in vice details for the other officers on the team to enter the set to see a suspect firsthand, and in doing so, have a drink, the former undercover officers said. 
  The retired officers said it is the discomfort and the feeling of aloneness that keep some people from going into the undercover details. 
  ''Everybody's not undercover,'' Mr. Harper said. ''Some people can do it. It can be kind of hairy.''
