Alfred Lubrano: Racism's modern complexion
Savvy enough, white Americans know how to answer poll questions about race:
The thing is, it's baloney.
While 20 percent of whites will admit to being biased against blacks, the real figure is closer to 80 percent, scientific psychologists say.
I mention this amid the brutality and sonic barbarity of the last couple of weeks. 
Undercover New York cops took the time to fire, reload, then continue shooting 50 bullets at a car that contained black men but no guns. 
 who was to marry within hours of the fusillade, was killed. Cops say the car hit an officer, but city police protocol states that is not reason enough to open fire when no one is shooting back.
The incident triggered memories of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African man killed in a hail of 41 shots by the same police department in 1999. Not to mention Abner Louima, a Haitian New Yorker violated with a plunger in a cop toilet in 1997.
And recently, comedian Michael Richards vilely spewed the n-word at hecklers in a comedy club like an onstage sniper.
While we don't have access to the heads of cops and comedians, it's a good bet these particular ones spark with flashes of real hatred.
Many white folks don't hate. But most have biases, even though they don't think they do. And therein lies a problem.
We no longer lynch; 21st-century racism is "racism among the well-intentioned," according to John Dovidio, a scientific psychologist at the University of Connecticut.
Many people who won't normally express racism will, when they believe it's justified, or when they feel pressure, act in a racist manner, Dovidio says.
Most white people grew up in a society in which more black than white faces were associated with poverty and crime on the TV news.
They grew up hearing negative comments about blacks from their parents; didn't see black people in their homes; never knew a black person with power.
What gets ingrained is that blacks are not as good as whites. You learn that it's wrong to say out loud, but it slithers in the lizard brain.
"That's modern racism," Dovidio says. "A person can be nice 90 percent of the time, but capable of racism the other 10." If you're white and get cut off by a black driver, for example, do awful words barge into your head?
Racism can be measured. In a test too complex to explain (see it at www.implicit.harvard.edu), scientists can tease out subconscious race bias that pollsters don't reach.
Often, race bias is expressed as in-group preference rather than as overt hostility. You'd rather be with your own kind, and at work, promote your own kind.
That's why affirmative-action laws are vital: Your subconscious is telling you to give the job to the white person because you're just more comfortable with that color.
Even whites who say they're "colorblind" explain to scientists that that means they blanch African Americans into Caucasians in their minds to make them seem OK.
The only way to battle bias is to live integrated lives. Truly unprejudiced people had countless positive interracial experiences, particularly as kids.
Meantime, just because you don't say the n-word doesn't mean you've fixed the problem. Bias lives in all of us. And we can't let our good intentions deceive us into thinking we're handling race well.
Contact columnist Alfred Lubrano at 215-854-4969 or alubrano@phillynews.com.
