WHO FIRED the shot that killed 
The answer lies in a series of microscopic scratches on four bullets.
Every gun leaves a distinct mark on a bullet, giving investigators a clear path to the cop or cops who fired the fatal round.
Bullets pierced Bell's neck and hip, perforating his lungs, liver and larynx. He was also shot in the right arm and the right shoulder. 
All of the bullets found in Bell have been turned over to NYPD ballistic examiners, according to the medical examiner's office.
"They're going to have to try to determine which bullets came from which guns," said James Gannalo, retired NYPD officer and ballistics expert. "How easy that will be depends, in part, on the condition of the bullets."
Alan Vinegrad, former U.S. attorney from Brooklyn, said it might not make any difference in a prosecution whose bullets hit Bell because "presumably they were all firing with the same intent, the same reason."
"But if everybody else stopped firing and the guy who shot 31 shots got off the last shots and it was one of those last shots that killed him," Vinegrad said, "they may not all be equally responsible."
Gannalo said investigators will first shoot a bullet into water with each of the five guns discharged by officers.
That will give them a clean sample of the markings on the inside of each gun barrel, said Albert Locher, assistant chief deputy district attorney in Sacramento, Calif.
Locher, who handles ballistics cases, said gun manufacturers use a tool that is pulled through the gun barrel and twisted to cut "grooves and lands." The lands are the raised areas between two grooves.
The process of rifling causes unique scratches on each gun barrel - making bullets similar to fingerprints.
"When the bullet is fired down the barrel of the gun - it's a tight fit - the rifling spins the bullet so it will be more stable in flight and more accurate," Locher said. "As the bullet travels down the barrel it is pressed against the lands and grooves and the microscopic scratches get reversed on the bullet."
Identification could be made difficult by damage done to bullets that were fired through glass or steel, or into bone, he said.
The cops in the shooting were carrying different models of guns, which should make identification easier. While all of the guns were 9-mm. weapons, different manufacturers use different kinds of rifling.
tmoore@nydailynews.com
Graphic: THE DNA OF BULLETS
EVERY GUN has its own virtual fingerprint that is imprinted on
every bullet fired. That "fingerprint" is given by a series of indentations inside the gun barrel. The soft lead of the bullet's base gets marked
by these indentations, leaving microsopic scratches behind as the bullet spins through the barrel. These marks are unique to individual gun barrels, but each manufacturer generally has certain characteristics.
THE POLICE GUNS AT THE SCENE
Sig Sauer P-226
Fired by Detective Mike Oliver and Officer Mike Carey
These guns have 6/right rifling characteristics. That means they have six grooves that are angled to the right.
A bullet shot from one of these guns would have the same pattern of angled scratches on its surface.
Smith & Wesson
Model 5946
Fired by Detective Paul Headley
This gun, authorized by the NYPD as an alternative to the Glock and also issued by Royal Canadian Mounted Police, has 5/right rifle characteristics, with five grooves angled to the right.
Both the Sig Sauer and Smith & Wesson guns are manufactured with traditional rifling, which creates deep grooves in the barrel.
Glock 19
Detective Mark Cooper
Glock 26
Unnamed undercover cop
The Glock also has 6/right rifling, but its manufacturer uses
a different method, polygonal rifling - where the grooves inside the barrel are less pronounced, making it more difficult to measure and match individual bullets to these guns.
