Two facts are beyond dispute in the sketchy events surrounding Saturday morning's fatal police shooting in Queens. The first and most tragic is that 23-year-old 
 is dead while two friends are hospitalized with multiple bullet wounds. The second is that police officers fired 50 shots into a moving car, into homes, into a train station and who knows where else.
While a grand jury probe has only begun, the number of slugs and trajectories suggest a serious departure from the discipline for which the NYPD is known. As a result, a young life was taken, two were scarred, a bride-to-be lost her groom, and five cops, who set out to do their duty, are facing potential criminal charges. 
The cops appear not to have been trigger happy. None had previously fired his or her weapon in the line of duty. But, quite likely, they were afraid. And, just as likely, Bell and his friends became afraid on encountering the cops, armed and undercover.
It was about 4 a.m. in the environs of a Jamaica strip club that had a "chronic history of narcotics, prostitution and weapons complaints," according to Police Commissioner Ray Kelly. The cops, who happen to be black and Hispanic and white, were looking for evidence that would enable authorities to shut down the place.
According to reports, there was talk, erroneous it turned out, of a gun among Bell and his companions, all of them black, who had patronized the club for a bachelor party. Then there was a street altercation. Then, attempting to drive away, the young men rammed an undercover police van, likely mistaking the plainclothes officers for a threat. Then the bullets started flying. When they stopped, one cop had fired 31 times, 16 times before reloading, 15 times after.
Whether that officer and the others reasonably believed themselves to be in grave danger - or whether there was panic - will be key to determining legal accountability. Because simply being afraid does not justify pumping off a single round, let alone taking a life while putting at risk lives in a crowded neighborhood.
Yesterday, the officers were put on administrative leave and their weapons were confiscated. This is at it should be. So, too, Kelly's expression of sympathy for families who expected to celebrate the wedding of Bell and Nicole Paultre, the mother of Bell's two children. Outraged and grief-stricken, relatives and friends are calling for justice. And they are on solid ground in doing so.
For justice must be done and flaws in police training must be addressed - based on the facts as they are elicited by DA Richard Brown, who must deliver on a promised fair and complete probe.
The object is not to advance a cause, as family spokesman the Rev. Al Sharpton urged, saying, "We cannot allow this to continue to happen. We've got to understand that all of us were in that car." Nor is it to go easy on lethal dereliction out of sympathy for cops who were working to rid a predominantly minority community of a dangerous quality-of-life scourge.
New York needs to examine this one down the middle, to get to the bottom of how a young man ended up dead and two ended up wounded by five cops after they all set out with good intentions.
Soo-eee!
Judging by that surest of barometers, the Voice of the People, New Yorkers are plenty mad at the retroactive pay raise the City Council voted for itself. One correspondent, Voicer Milton Katzis of Manhattan, nailed the outrage by pointing out that the starting salary for the NYPD is $25,100 while Council members get $112,500, plus additional stipends called lulus, plus unlimited private income. All of which reminded us that the Council piggies followed only one recommendation of the mayoral commission that justified a 25% pay hike. The piggies rushed through the raise while dismissing without action the panel's call for, among other reforms, abolishing lulus. And now the piggies posture as fiscal hawks, oinking ludicrously against no-bid school contracts that have actually saved millions upon millions of dollars. Speaker Christine Quinn (photo) and her squealers have zero credibility as guardians of the purse and will not regain what little credibility they did have until they pass the reforms that were supposed to accompany their raises. Oink.
