Rutgers coach 
 is one of nine finalists for the 
 coach-of-the-year award, given annually in honor of the former Grambling State football legend.
Schiano's 13th-ranked Scarlet Knights (10-1) can win the school's first Big East championship by defeating West Virginia on Saturday. Schiano is 29-40 in six seasons at Rutgers but 17-6 since the start of the 2005 season.
Joining Schiano as finalists are Houston's 
, Michigan's 
, Wake Forest's 
, Hawaii's 
, Brigham Young's 
, Arkansas' 
, Boise State's 
, and Oklahoma's 
. The winner will be announced Jan. 5. 
The records may be undistinguished, but the matchup for the first Emerald Bowl involves a pair of big-name teams: Florida State (6-6) is set to play UCLA (6-5) in San Francisco on Dec. 27.
The Bruins will finish their regular season against No. 2 Southern Cal on Saturday.
Oregon State, the only team to beat USC (10-1) this season, accepted a bid to play in the Sun Bowl.
Rice accepted a bid to the New Orleans Bowl, the Owls' first postseason game since 1961.
, the most versatile player for defending NCAA basketball champion Florida, is sidelined with mononucleosis. He could miss several games while recovering from the viral infection... . Tulane fired head football coach 
 after eight seasons. Scelfo's overall record was 37-57.
 paced the fastest 11/4 miles in history - 2 minutes, 19.4 seconds - over any size track to win the $250,000 Pacing Classic at Dover Downs on Monday night.
Kentucky Derby winner 
 continues to improve after the removal of the cast on his right hind leg on Nov. 6, his medical team said. Barbaro's leg had been in a cast since surgery on May 20.
"Radiographs of his fractured lower limb were taken and look excellent," said surgeon 
. Barbaro's left hind foot, which had laminitis, continues to improve, Richardson said.
The International Olympic Committee, meeting in Kuwait City, approved skicross - similar to snowboardcross - for the Vancouver Games in 2010 but rejected women's jumping and five other events.
The IOC also reported that more than 4,000 doping tests will be carried out during the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
 insists she never committed herself to playing against men in a 2001 "Battle of the Sexes" event and said the splashy exhibition did not interest her. "That wasn't my thing," she testified in a breach-of-contract lawsuit in West Palm Beach, Fla. "I'm a professional women's tennis player. I want to play serious tennis."
A company called CCKR that intended to stage the tournament contends that the Williams sisters reneged on an agreement arranged by their father, 
.
Goal-line cameras will be used Sunday during a game in Italy's top soccer league.
The experiment is sponsored by the Italian soccer federation and will be tried during Reggina's game at Udinese in Serie A.
Four high-resolution cameras will be placed 66 feet above the corner flags.
The unarmed man shot to death by New York police hours before his wedding on Saturday was the nephew of Miami basketball coach 
.
, 23, was killed and two of his friends were wounded Saturday after his bachelor party at a strip club in Queens.
Haith will attend Bell's funeral on Friday, the school told the Miami Herald.
