THE GRIEVING fiance of a Queens man killed by a barrage of 50 police bullets shopped for a funeral dress yesterday after she and her beloved's parents met for the first time with Mayor Bloomberg.
"We want answers, we want answers," William Bell, whose son Sean was shot dead by cops, told Bloomberg repeatedly as his son's fiance, Nicole Paultre, wept quietly.
Sitting with them in the front pews of Community Church of Christ in Jamaica, Queens, Bloomberg vowed, "there would be a full investigation, but he made them no promises," a witness to the exchange told the Daily News. 
"The family told the mayor they didn't understand how this could happen," the source said. "They don't want the city disrupted, they're not calling for anyone's resignation, they just want justice done."
They first talked with Bloomberg flanked by African-American leaders and clergy, such as the Rev. Al Sharpton, Bishop Lester Williams, who was to marry Paultre and Bell, and state Senate Minority Leader Malcolm Smith (D-Queens).
Then the officials retreated to the back of the church to give the family and Bloomberg some time alone.
When the one-hour meeting was over, Paultre left with relatives for the J. Foster Phillips Funeral Home on Linden Blvd. in St. Albans. She carried with her clothes for her fianc, 

 the unarmed 23-year-old who was slain Saturday just hours before their wedding.
After dropping off the clothes, Paultre and two friends drove to Jamaica Ave., where they marched sadly from store to store in search of something to wear to Bell's funeral on Friday. They gave up as darkness descended and headed home without having made a purchase.
With many leaders in the black community seething over the fatal police shooting of yet another unarmed black New Yorker, Bloomberg reached out to Sharpton shortly after Bell was killed outside a seedy strip club, sources said.
Bloomberg's meeting with Bell's kin came a day after he held two emotional meetings with black leaders.
"We talked a lot about the procedures of who investigates what," Bloomberg said yesterday. "They obviously, like many people, would like to speculate on what happened. And I pointed out that I can't get involved in speculation."
A day earlier, Bloomberg said the 50 shots "sounds like excessive force." He did not back away from his comments yesterday.
"I am a civilian. I am not a professional law enforcement officer," he said. "I used the word excessive and that's fine. That was my personal opinion."
William Bell declined to detail what he told Bloomberg during the private meeting. "That's something personal," he said. "I'm keeping that between me and him."
William Bell, holding his slain son's 5-month-old daughter in his arms, later told WABC Channel 7, "Even now I don't believe it."
"I'm afraid to go to sleep," he said. "They just killed my son. For what reason? It doesn't matter to me what color the cops was. My son is dead."

 had just left the Kalua Cabaret strip club with his pals, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, when they got into a fatal confrontation with cops.
Guzman, 31, was shot 11 times and remained in critical condition. Benefield, 23, who was hit three times, was in stable condition.
City Council Speaker Christine Quinn and Councilman Thomas White, who represents the Jamaica area, visited with relatives of the injured men at Mary Immaculate Hospital.
Detectives tried to interview Guzman's sister, Yolanda, on Monday. But she wouldn't let them into her brother's room, a family spokesman said.
"She believes the officers tried to kill all of them and she's afraid someone is going to come and finish the job," said family spokesman Charles Aziz Bilal.
jgonzalez@nydailynews.com
