NORTH AMERICA
NEW YORK MAYOR BELIEVES COPS USED EXCESSIVE FORCE
NEW YORK - Mayor Michael Bloomberg weighed in on the uproar over a deadly police shooting Monday, saying bluntly that officers appeared to use excessive force when they fired 50 shots at an unarmed man in a confrontation outside a strip club hours before his wedding.
"I can tell you that it is to me unacceptable or inexplicable how you can have 50-odd shots fired, but that's up to the investigation to find out what really happened," Bloomberg said at a news conference after meeting with elected officials and community leaders, including Rev. Al Sharpton and Representative Charles Rangel.
The groom, 
 23, was killed and two of his friends wounded early Saturday after a bachelor party at the strip club. Suspecting that one of the men had a gun, police fired 50 rounds into the vehicle. The men were unarmed. 
Sharpton called it a "very candid" meeting. He said the message to Bloomberg was: "This city must show moral outrage that 50 shots were fired on three unarmed men." Some have also questioned whether the shooting was racially motivated because the victims were all black. The five officers who fired their guns included two blacks, two whites and one Hispanic.
10 KILLED IN GROUP HOME SUSPICIOUS FIRE IN MISSOURI
ANDERSON, Mo. - An early morning fire broke out in a group home for the elderly and mentally ill Monday, killing 10 people and injuring two dozen others in a blaze that the governor said was being treated as a crime.
The blaze reduced the privately run Anderson Guest House to a skeleton of cinder blocks and stunned this rural community of about 1,800 people tucked in the Ozark hills about 55 kilometres south of Joplin.
Gov. Matt Blunt said investigators were treating the fire as suspicious.
"We're not saying it is definitely a crime scene, but we are treating it as if it is and trying to determine if the fire was set by somebody who had a nefarious motive," Blunt said.
EUROPE
U.K. TRACKS RADIOACTIVE SITES AFTER POISONING DEATH
LONDON - The British government began tracking radioactive hotspots in London on Monday to trace the poison that killed a former KGB agent, and three people who reported possible symptoms of contamination underwent testing.
Britain announced a formal inquest into the death of Alexander Litvinenko, but Home Secretary John Reid warned against rushing to conclusions over who might be responsible for the killing of the ex-spy turned Kremlin critic.
Litvinenko died Thursday after falling ill from what doctors said was poisoning by polonium-210, a radioactive isotope usually manufactured in specialized nuclear facilities. High doses of polonium, which is deadly if ingested or inhaled, were found in Litvinenko's body.
"The nature of this radiation is such that it does not travel over long distances, a few centimetres at most, and therefore there is no need for public alarm," Reid said in a special address to the House of Commons.
BALMY WEATHER MEANS THAT FROGS CAN'T SLEEP
BERLIN - An unusually warm autumn in Germany is wreaking havoc in the normal behaviour patterns of the country's wildlife, keeping birds from flying south for the winter and frogs from sleeping, experts said Monday.
With November temperatures in some areas hovering around the 20C mark in some regions, biologists have observed major disruptions to nature's normal rhythms.
Wildlife expert Peter Schuetz with the environment department of the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia said that migratory birds such as cranes appeared to have "no desire" to head south due to the balmy temperatures.
Because they continue to find food on the ground in harvested cornfields, there is little impulse to leave.
NEWSPAPER'S APPEAL OF DIARY DECISION BEGINS
LONDON - The Court of Appeal in London on Monday began hearing a case brought by Prince Charles against the Mail on Sunday after the publication by the weekly of extracts from a private journal belonging to the heir to the throne.
Associated Newspapers, the Mail on Sunday's parent company, appealed a decision in March by the High Court which ruled in favour of the prince over his diary chronicling the hand-over of Hong Kong to China in 1997.
The decision temporarily blocked publication of seven other entries in Charles's private journal, which the Mail on Sunday had in its possession.
The Prince of Wales had brought a case against the newspaper after the publication in November 2005 of extracts containing a harsh critique of the ceremonies marking the restitution of Hong Kong to China.
In the diary entry, entitled The Handover of Hong Kong -- or The Great Chinese Takeaway, the Prince had described China's leaders as "appalling old waxworks."
SLAVE TRADE CONDEMNED BUT NO APOLOGY FROM BLAIR
LONDON - Prime Minister Tony Blair condemned the African slave trade and expressed deep sorrow for Britain's role -- but stopped short Monday of offering an apology or compensation for the descendants of those victimized by it.
Activists are putting pressuring on Britain to offer an apology -- and reparations -- for its role in slavery before it marks the 200th anniversary of the law that banned the country's participation in the Atlantic slave trade.
Blair wrote in an article in the New Nation newspaper it is right to recognize the active role Britain, its ports and its industry once played in the trafficking of human beings.
"I believe the bicentenary offers us a chance not just to say how profoundly shameful the slave trade was -- how we condemn its existence utterly and praise those who fought for its abolition -- but also to express our deep sorrow that it ever happened, that it ever could have happened," Blair wrote in the black community newspaper.
ASIA
SRI LANKAN PEACE EFFORTS WRITTEN OFF BY REBEL CHIEF
DELHI - Tamil Tiger rebels in Sri Lanka signalled a return to all-out war Monday when the group's leadership said efforts to find a negotiated settlement to the 23-year civil war were now "defunct."
Four years after Norwegian intermediaries attempted to broker a solution to an ethnic war, which has killed 65,000 people, the Tigers' secretive leader said the process was effectively dead.
The statement by Velupillai Prabhakaran comes after rising violence in which the Sinhala-majority government in Colombo and separatist Tamil guerrillas in Sri Lanka's north and east have clashed with increasing ferocity.
Prabhakaran used his annual "Heroes Day" speech Monday to declare his desire for an "independent" Tamil homeland in Sri Lanka and apparently walk away from negotiations.
SOUTH AMERICA
COLOMBIAN CABBIE ROLLS ROBBER OVER EMBANKMENT
BOGOTA - A Colombian taxi driver got the better of an armed robber by rolling his cab over an embankment -- with the assailant still inside.
The driver, whom police identified as Isidro, 66, suffered a stab wound from the would-be thief, 16, who landed in hospital with multiple fractures, police said Monday.
Isidro's wife said her husband's wound was slight, but he feared the thief would kill him and so rolled his hack toward the embankment and jumped to safety.
The robber wanted to take the driver's income for that day, some $40, said Santander province police chief Alvaro Miranda, adding that the incident took place in Bucaramanga, Colombia's fifth-largest city, near the Venezuelan border.
Authorities in Bucaramanga said the city of one million inhabitants is seeing a spike in attacks against taxis and other public transportation, largely by adolescents.
