FOR a very smart guy, Mayor Mike sometimes exercises stunningly bad judgment.    
So it has been this week, in the wake of Saturday morning's explosive 50-round burst of police gunfire in Queens; one man, 
 died, and two companions were wounded.  
Monday, Mayor Bloomberg proclaimed the fusillade "excessive" and "unacceptable" - extraordinary words coming from New York City's chief executive.   
He might better have termed the tragedy "unfortunate" - if not actuarially inevitable.  
This would not have soothed those who prosper from such tragedies, but - given the lack so far of even a hint of bad faith on the part of the police officers involved - it would have better served the cold, hard truth.  
Which is that the NYPD made 357,000 arrests in 2005 alone - each and every one of which represented a potential for conflict of the sort that ended so tragically in Queens at 4:30 a.m. last Saturday.  
Cowboy cops?  
Hardly. One needs to reach back to 1999, to the death of Amadou Diallo, to find circumstances similar to those present Saturday morning: Darkness, confusion, high tension, fear - and wild, reckless police gunfire.  
The Diallo shooting was a catastrophe of the first order, resulting from a gross breakdown of the good order and discipline for which the NYPD is universally known and admired.  
Yet a jury subsequently determined that no crime had been committed, despite the efforts of the usual suspects to elevate the incident to criminal status - indeed, many of those now practicing civil incitement were staples of the Diallo demonstrations.  
Those disturbances, of course, had much more to do with then-Mayor Rudy Giuliani than they did with Amadou Diallo.  
While the shooting clearly had struck a chord in New York City, the fact is that the most vocal of the critics were demagogues whose high-decibel demands had once shaped city policy - but whom Giuliani had dismissed out of hand when he took office.  
They never forgave him for that, Sharpton and Barron and the rest, nor will they ever. So just imagine their joy Monday when Bloomberg invited them back into the public dialogue.  
Seven-plus years have passed since the death of Amadou Diallo. In the interim, 16 NYPD officers have died in the line of duty (not counting the 23 killed on 9/11) - with five slain in just the past two years.  
In Brooklyn yesterday, testimony was being taken in the murder trial of Ronell Wilson - accused in the 2003 execution-style murder of NYPD undercover officers Rodney Andrews and James Nemorin.  
Those killings, too, were a rare enough event: Again, with emphasis, city cops make hundreds of thousands of arrests each year - virtually all without incident.  
Yet the deaths doubtless hang heavy on the minds of New York's Finest - as do those of Eric Hernandez and Kevin Lee and Francis Hennessy and Daniel Enchategui and Dillon Stewart and so on down the roll of honor.  
This does not, of itself, excuse the apparent breakdown of discipline that seems to have precipitated Saturday's shootings. In that regard, the NYPD has some work to do.  
But it certainly helps explain why it happened.  
Bloomberg's proper public-policy role in such cases is to keep silent as to culpability while a district attorney sorts out the facts.  
To do otherwise - and yesterday he was cautioning vaguely against changes of venue in any criminal trials that might proceed from the shootings - is to empower the social vultures who feed off private sorrow and public discord.  
Mike Bloomberg needs to remember that he is mayor of all the city - and that includes its cops.   
