A BRIDEGROOM was shot dead at the wheel of his car on his wedding day.
Police fired 50 rounds at the unarmed father of two as he left his stag party at a New York strip club on Saturday.  
The spray of bullets hit the car 21 times, after the vehicle rammed into an undercover officer and then an unmarked NYPD van twice, police said.
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly would not say if the collisions were what prompted police to open fire.
Police thought one of the men in the car may have have had a gun, but police later found no weapons.
Kelly said the incident stemmed from an undercover operation inside the strip club.
Seven officers in plain clothes were investigating the Kalua Cabaret, and five were involved in the shooting. The gunfire also hit nearby homes and a train station, although no residents were injured.
The groom, who was driving, was identified as 
 aged 23.
His friend Joseph Guzman, aged 31, who was in the front seat, was shot at least 11 times. Trent Benefield, aged 23, who was in the back seat, was hit three times. Both men were taken to Mary Immaculate Hospital. Guzman was listed in critical condition and Benefield was in stable condition.
Kelly said there may have been a fourth person in the car who fled the scene.
Three officers, including the undercover hit by the car, were treated and released. Another detective remained in hospital for hypertension, Kelly said.
A grand jury was investigating the incident. Kelly said none of the five officers who had a combined 49 years of experience had ever discharged their weapons in the line of duty.
Kelly said the establishment has a "chronic history of narcotics, prostitution and weapons complaints."
The shooting drew angry protests from family members and civil rights leader the Reverend Al Sharpton.
Sharpton said Bell and his fiancee had two children, aged three and five months.
Robert Porter, Bell's first cousin, said he was supposed to be a DJ at the wedding. He said about 250 people were invited and were flying in from all over the US. He said his cousin wasn't the type to confront police and that he was "on the straight and narrow."
"I still don't want to believe it," Porter said. "A beautiful day like this, and he was going to have a beautiful wedding, he was going to live forever with his wife and children."
