It haunted him. Bishop Lester Williams had known 
 for 12 years, and yesterday, he could not forget the sense of urgency Mr. Bell felt recently to finally marry his high school sweetheart, Nicole Paultre.
  Almost two weeks ago, at the couple's last meeting with Bishop Williams before their wedding, he said he asked Mr. Bell one last time if he was sure that marriage was for him, and the answer came easily.
''He said, 'Yes, definitely,' '' Bishop Williams recalled. ''He was so sure, he wanted to sign the marriage license right then. He was in a hurry to get this thing done.'' 
  Yesterday afternoon, Bishop Williams, pastor of the Community Church of Christ in Jamaica, Queens, stood outside the sanctuary, where instead of marrying the couple on Saturday, he led a service to mourn Mr. Bell's death. He died early Saturday after being shot by the police following his bachelor party.
  ''I should have just married them in my office, then had the ceremony later,'' Bishop Williams said. ''I wanted to make sure he was doing this for the right reasons. Now, I feel terrible.'' 
  ''I can't get his face out of my mind,'' he added, remembering how Mr. Bell, who was 23, stopped in the doorway as he left their final meeting. '' 'I'll be back,' he said.''
  As details of the shooting came to light Saturday afternoon, Bishop Williams said Ms. Paultre, 22, called him and asked if he could somehow still legally marry them. ''We can't do it,'' the bishop said he told her. ''I'm sorry.''
  Mr. Bell's funeral will be at the church at 10 a.m. on Friday.
  At a rally yesterday in front of Mary Immaculate Hospital in Jamaica, where two of Mr. Bell's friends were recovering from wounds suffered in the shooting, community and religious leaders remembered him as a star pitcher for John Adams High School in Ozone Park and a devoted father.
  Summing up the season of his senior year, The Daily News reported in June 2001 that Mr. Bell had ''dominated'' as a pitcher, finishing his final season with an 11-0 record, a 2.30 E.R.A. and 97 strikeouts in 62.2 innings. Newsday said in July 2001 that he had led John Adams to ''a sixth straight division title.'' 
  But his dreams of pursuing a baseball career were put off when he learned that his girlfriend, Ms. Paultre, was pregnant, according to one of his cousins, Kinglarry Crawford. Three years ago, she gave birth to their daughter Jada. Five months ago, their second daughter, Jordyn, was born.
  ''He was a great baseball player. He would have signed professionally,'' Bishop Williams said. ''He gave up all that baseball and everything to be with his high school sweetheart.''
  Mr. Bell worked odd jobs while the couple lived with Ms. Paultre's parents in an apartment on Beach 27th Street in Far Rockaway, Mr. Crawford said. Still, Mr. Bell kept in shape, running and lifting weights, Mr. Crawford added, hoping to return to the sport one day.
  As time passed, new dreams, beyond baseball, emerged. Mr. Bell hoped to move next year from New York and settle with his bride, possibly, in Atlanta, Mr. Crawford said.
  He didn't want any more of ''New York life,'' Mr. Crawford said. ''New York is violent.''
  Indeed, Mr. Bell seemed to want to leave behind the community, where for him, crime was difficult to avoid. According to a city Department of Correction official, Mr. Bell had been arrested four times, once in 2003, once in 2004, and twice this year, most recently on Nov. 7. 
  The charges were not available yesterday, but after all four arrests he was released on his own recognizance, suggesting that the arrests involved relatively minor offenses. 
  As the couple began the next phase of their lives, Ms. Paultre's parents were planning to help them buy a house if they went through with the move, Mr. Crawford added. Activists, politicians and other speakers at a rally yesterday pledged that they, too, would help support Ms. Paultre and the couple's daughters.
  ''He was doing the right thing,'' said the Rev. Al Sharpton, who spoke at the rally. ''He was going to marry the mother of his children.''
