POLICE killed a groomtobe and injured his two friends after firing 50 rounds at their car following a stag night visit to a strip club.
Father- of-two 
 23, died hours before he was due to get married to fiancee Nicole Paulter. 
Joseph Guzman, 31, was hit 11 times and Trent Benefield, 23, three times.
None of the men was armed.
The shooting took place during an undercover operation at a New York lapdancing club called Kalua Cabaret.
It is thought a detective overhead one of the three friends say 'get my gun' in the club.
As Bell drove off, he struck an officer on foot patrol before mounting the pavement and hitting a police van.
Policemen then jumped out and opened fire, thinking they were being attacked.
One of the officers, a veteran of the NYPD, fired his 9mm handplacegun 31 times, emptying two magazines.
Some of the bullets hit nearby houses and a railway station, but no-one was injured.
The spray of bullets hit the car 21 times.
Last night New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said police had feared for their lives and opened fire on the car.
He added that they believed a gunfight was about to take He said: 'Although it is too early to draw conclusions about the shootings, we know that the NYPD officers on the scene had reason to believe that an altercation involving a firearm was about to happen and were trying to stop it.' New York police commissioner Raymond Kelly said an investigation had been launched into the shooting.
Three officers, including the officer hit by the car, were treated in hospital and released.
Another detective remained hospitalised for blood pressure.
The strip club was being staked out over alleged drugs and prostitution offences.
Civil rights activist the Reverend Al Sharpton led the calls for a full inquiry yesterday.
He said: 'This stinks.
Something about the story being told does not seem right.' Bells's cousin Robert Porter said: 'I still don't want to believe it.
'A beautiful day like this, and he was going to have a beautiful wedding, he was going to live forever with his wife and children.
And this happened.'
