AWAY FROM the loud calls for justice and the political haggling over his son's death at the hands of police, William Bell is waiting for a phone call. 
"You would think they would come to me," he said yesterday, referring to Mayor Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly. "Me and my wife brought this kid onto the Earth. I'm the father and you don't have the decency to come and talk to me?"
Since 
 was killed in a hail of bullets fired by five cops, William Bell and his family reluctantly have become thrust into the spotlight.
While Bell's fiance, Nicole Paultre; her parents, and 
 uncle joined forces with civil rights leader the Rev. Al Sharpton at meetings yesterday with the Queens district attorney, Bell's parents stayed in their Cambria Heights, Queens, home.
The devastated dad said that his family's grief has been put on display by well-meaning activists and leaders - but their basic needs have not been addressed.
"It's more about politics than human life. I don't want no mass destruction. I want things to be peaceful but I want answers," he said in his first public comments since the incident.
 killing, on the morning of his wedding day, has mobilized civic leaders to question the police procedures that led five cops to blast 50 shots at the groom's car.
"All you see is the politicians, but they didn't lose. I lost," William Bell said. "Rev. Sharpton has been doing this a long time. I admire the man for what he is doing but what about me, my wife and my family?"
Bell wants the murky details about his son's encounter with the cops made clear.
"They took his life. And now they are beating around the bush with this. What are they trying to do?" he asked.
The grieving father doesn't trust the police version of events and is hopeful a fair investigation will be conducted. But he said what bothers him most is the lack of sympathy he sees from Kelly and Bloomberg.
"Say 'I'm sorry and I'm trying to figure out what is going on.' But it's like they don't care," he said. "Instead, they are protecting the cops involved. They care more about these five people. They are walking around but my son is dead," he said.
tel-ghobashy@nydailynews.com
