Black radio hosts, like their colleagues, figured to spend yesterday morning bantering about eating too much turkey and heading back to work.
But the story of 

 the bridegroom who died Saturday in a hail of police bullets in Queens, changed that plan.
"We started with the light stuff," said Jeff Foxx, co-host of the "Wake-Up Club" on WRKS (98.7 FM). "But we realized very quickly that wasn't what the listeners wanted yesterday. They wanted to talk about this case. So that's where we took it. You go in with a game plan. But you end up making a lot of calls at the line." 
It's not that any station planned to ignore the case. "It was on my mind from the time I heard about it," said Egypt, co-host with Donnell Rawlins on WWPR (105.1 FM). "I knew we'd talk about it, which is why I reached out to family members and 

 fiance."
The Bell case also became the dominant topic at WQHT (97.1 FM) with DJ Envy, Michael Shaun and Research. Ann Tripp made it the lead news story with Steve Harvey on WBLS (107.5 FM), and it was prominent on Deepa Fernandez's "Wake-Up Call" over WBAI (99.5 FM).
It added up to an often intense post-holiday morning on the radio. "But that's what radio can do," said Egypt. "It can give you something light and fun, then shift to something serious."
Making extra time for the Bell story, said Foxx, served the listeners: "We could go into more details and aspects of the case, not just give it a sound bite."
Besides Egypt's interview with Bell's fiance, Nicole Paultre, WRKS, WQHT and WWPR talked with activists like the Rev. Al Sharpton and Councilman Charles Barron, as well as police officers, who had a wide range of perspectives - from defending the shooters to saying it sounded like procedures were violated.
"And lots of regular folks just wanted to talk," said Foxx. "Local radio can let them do that."
The Bell case was also the focus of Sunday's local black talk shows, like Imhotep Gary Byrd on WBLS and Bob Slade/ James Mtume/Bob Pickett on WRKS.
Several callers lamented the city's lack of a full-time black talk station that could help keep ongoing issues like police conduct in the spotlight.
"This story isn't going away," said Egypt. "But at least today listeners were able to vent, I was able to vent and we could offer a little comfort to Nicole."
WLIB HOSTS: WLIB (1190 AM), which launched its new "Praise and Inspiration" format without hosts in September, is now putting a lineup in place.
Denise Hill, "The Gospel Lady in the Morning" and program director, does 6-10 a.m., and the Rev. Hezekiah Walker plays "Afternoon Praise," 2-7 p.m.
Syndicated hosts Morgan Dukes and Jackie Campbell are heard in middays and drive time, with local elements.
CELEBRATING RUTH: Robert Putignano salutes the late Ruth Brown tomorrow at 10 a.m. on WFDU (89.1 FM).
Brown, a pioneer of R&B who later became a multimedia star, died last weekend at 78. Putignano's show will include an interview with Brown and Joel Dorn.
Two other important early black music figures also passed away recently: Art Jackson of Kansas City's Five Scamps, who went to school with Charlie Parker, and bluesman Robert Lockwood Jr., who played with the famous Robert Johnson.
COMING BACK: A spokesperson for WRKS says afternoon host Michael Baisden will remain off the air this week and return live next Monday.
