Mayor Michael Bloomberg met yesterday with the family and fiancee of an unarmed black man killed by police gunfire outside a New York strip club on his wedding day.
The 50-bullet police volley - compared to a "firing squad" by the Rev Al Sharpton - killed 23-year-old 
 after his bachelor party, wounded two of his friends and ignited concerns over police tactics. The three men were unarmed. 
Bloomberg went to the family's church in the borough of Queens and met with Bell's fiancee and father, and with Sharpton, a prominent civil rights leader.
The mayor then met again with other community leaders at a restaurant.
The mayor stood by his comments at a news conference that it was "unacceptable or inexplicable" how police could have fired 50-odd shots, but an investigation would determine what really happened.
"It seemed to me the number of shots fired, as I said, was excessive," he said. "I wasn't there, maybe it will turn out to be not excessive."
Bloomberg said yesterday that he was steadfast in his support for Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly, despite demands from some community leaders that he step down.
Of the victims, Bloomberg said: "There is no evidence that they were doing anything wrong," referring to what led up to the moment their car struck an undercover officer outside the nightclub.
Queens District Attorney Richard A Brown said his office was investigating the Saturday morning shootings.
Two of Bell's friends were wounded after Bell's bachelor party at the strip club. The victims were black. The five police officers who fired shots included two blacks, two whites and one Hispanic. The undercover operation at the Kalua Cabaret club was part of a citywide crackdown sparked by the case of a New Jersey teenager who was abducted, raped and killed following a night of partying earlier this year at a Manhattan nightclub.
Police said they had received several complaints about prostitution and drug dealing at the club in Queens before sending in two undercover detectives.
The situation began to unravel when one of the
officers alerted the back-up team outside that a man inside was possibly armed.
One of the undercover detectives retrieved his weapon and confronted
Bell and his friends in their car.
Kelly suggested it was unorthodox for the officer to blow his cover rather than rely on other officers to make the arrest.
Union officials insist the detective identified himself and ordered the men to stop before the car, driven by Bell, lurched forward and bumped him.
The vehicle then smashed into an unmarked police van, backed up and smashed the van again before the shooting began.
Bell's fiancee, Nicole Paultre, branded the officers "murderers".
Joseph Guzman, 31, was shot at least 11 times, Trent Benefield, 23, was hit three times. Guzman was in critical condition and Benefield in a stable condition yesterday.
