IF EVER THE DEAD could rise, then surely 

 would have risen from the hospital gurney to comfort his bride-to-be as she viewed his bullet-torn body on the very day they were to be married.
Nicole Paultre was to have been escorted up the aisle in her bridal best to join her beloved as music played and a hall packed with friends and relatives gazed admiringly, eyes welling with happy tears.. 
The bitterest of tears fell as she was instead led across the emergency room linoleum at 10 a.m. yesterday to the side of her high school sweetheart, the one who had taken her to the prom, the one she had cheered as he pitched 14 strikeouts in a single game for the John Adams High baseball team, the father of their two young children.
Bell had gone off to his bachelor party at a Queens strip club the night before. She had attended her bridal shower at her mother's house and stayed over.
"Where she was going to leave today with her limousine and her bridal party," her mother, Laura Harper-Paultre, noted.
Sometime after 4 a.m., the phone rang. The husband of Nicole's older sister had gone to the bachelor party and he was calling to report that Bell was one of three unarmed young men who had been hit by a hail of police bullets after they left the Kalua Cabaret.
The bride-to-be's family did not yet know Bell had tried to drive away from plainclothes cops he mistook for bad guys. Or that the cops inexplicably fired as many as 50 rounds, sending one slug into a private house, another into an Air Tran station. They did not even know what hospital and it was only by luck the first call was to the right one.
"They said, 'Get the family and come here,'" the mother recalled.
The Paultres arrived at Jamaica Hospital at 4:50 a.m. They had yet to receive any word of Bell's condition 20 minutes later, when three police officers appeared.
"All they said to my daughter was, 'Are you his wife?' " the mother recalled.
The bride-to-be was not going to reply, "In a few hours, if he makes it." She also was not going to say no and maybe have them reply they could only speak to the immediate family.
"Yes," she said.
The cops asked for identification and she complied.
"I asked one of them, 'Is he alive?' " the mother recalled. "[The cop] said he didn't know anything. That was approximately 5:10 a.m. today, their wedding day."
The cops departed. The mother and the bride-to-be waited, waited, waited in the family room. The doctors finally came in and told them Bell had been dead on arrival.
The doctors assured them he had suffered no physical pain, though even if he had only a last millisecond of consciousness he must have seared with regret at dying on this day. All the pain anyone could feel seemed to hit the young woman who now would never be her darling Sean's bride.
"She is destroyed," her mother said.
Other relatives of the bride and the groom arrived, including Bell's father, William. They stood outside the emergency room as they would have stood outside the wedding, joined as one family not by joy but unspeakable tragedy.
Some police officers asked to speak to the family and the relatives went inside, hoping they would finally get some information regarding the shooting. Harper-Paultre emerged and said the officers had only wanted to know what happened to 

 bloody clothes.
"The nurses told them the 103rd Precinct took them," the mother said.
The family still had no official word from the police about what might have transpired.
"I don't think they know what to say," the mother said.
At 10 a.m., the medical staff said the family could come in to see 

 Nicole Paultre stepped shakily up to the young man with whom she was to have exchanged vows to stick by each other until death did them part. They were now forever parted even before they were joined. They would never have that one perfect kiss at the altar.
The bride-not-to-be remained inside the hospital with the groom-not-to-be as other family members stepped outside. Dad William Bell stood by the emergency room door, his eyes raw with unfathomable hurt as he gazed at a morning as bright as a young couple's dreams. His hand rose in the direction of the scene of the shooting a dozen blocks away, but he was pointing toward the perfect blue sky.
"Look at this day," he said. "It should have been a beautiful day."
mdaly@nydailynews.com
