
 stricken young fiance yesterday silently lit white prayer candles at the site where her unarmed boyfriend was shot dead by cops -  and later bitterly wept as she called the officers "murderers" who trapped and "executed" him.  
Nicole Paultre, 22, quietly went to the spot in the middle of Liverpool Street in South Jamaica, Queens, before dawn and stood amid shards of car-window glass left by the cops' bullets that killed her high-school sweetheart.   
She then lit the candles, which were left near a beaming photo of her, Bell and the oldest of their two girls, Jada.  
Asked on a radio program later what she would say to the five cops who unloaded 50 bullets on Bell and his friends as they tried to flee in their car early Saturday, on what would have been her wedding day, Paultre fought back tears as she responded.  
"First, I would start by not referring to them as officers. They are murderers. They are not officers," she told Power 105.1's "Egypt and Ashy in the Morning."  
Breaking her silence for the first time since Bell's death, Paultre added:  
"No one gives anybody the right to kill somebody, to take someone's life. They don't know what they've done, what pain they've caused this family, my kids."  
The pretty mom then broke down in sobs for several moments before mumbling "sorry" and adding:  
"They barricaded him in, and they executed him."  
Paultre was supposed to marry her 23-year-old lover later that day in front of family and friends.  
But Bell wound up shot after his bachelor party at a strip club when undercover cops, thinking his group had a gun, pounced on them and launched into a shootout among themselves, catching the groom-to-be in the crossfire.  
"We all know it was wrong," Paultre said. "He [Bell] did nothing wrong."  
The fresh-faced mom said she first learned something may have happened to her fianc when a relative called her.  
"They didn't tell me what happened, just to come, come to the hospital. And that was it," she said.  
"When I showed up . . . they still wouldn't tell me anything," she said of authorities. "Everything was completely messed up. I waited over an hour in the emergency-room waiting area just to find out what happened, what condition he was in."  
Paultre said one of the hardest things she's had to do since Bell's death is tell Jada, 3, that her father isn't coming home.  
"I had to explain that Daddy's with God, Daddy's an angel now," the mom said, breaking down again.  
"She knows all about prayers, so she was actually kind of happy when I explained it to her . . . We may not be able to see him, but he's here, shining on us, he's watching us."  
Paultre -  who spoke along with Bell's cousin, Marilyn Bell, an editor at Black Elegance magazine -  urged all New Yorkers to attend a rally Dec. 6 at One Police Plaza in downtown Manhattan.  
"We want everybody to come out because this is not just my fiance and Marilyn's cousin and Mr. and Mrs. Bell's son," Paultre said.  
"This could be anybody. This could be anybody's son, anybody's husband, anybody's father."  
Marilyn Bell spoke lovingly of her cousin, calling him generous and devoted to his family.  
"Sean was a loving young man. He adored Nicole. He adored his daughters," she said.       
Paultre's mother, Laura Paultre, visited the memorial dedicated to Bell later in the day and took a photograph of it, although she acknowledged, "It doesn't help. I feel worse.  
"I would have been his mother-in-law, and they murdered him in cold blood. And he was only trying to go home."       
One of Bell's pals took issue with reports detailing his criminal past. Bell had been arrested three times: twice for drugs and once on a gun charge, although the case was sealed.  
"It doesn't add up to 50 shots, regardless," the man said.  
Additional reporting by Leonard Greene and Erin Calabrese 
