A STRUGGLE over a cop's gun led to Saturday's lethal shooting of an unarmed black teenager in suburban St. Louis, officials claimed Sunday.
But the mother of 18-year-old Michael Brown did not accept the official version of the killing of her son - and said the officer who fired the deadly shots deserved the ultimate punishment. 
"I would like to see him go to jail with the death penalty," a grieving Lesley McSpadden said Sunday.
St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar said the officer was attacked after he encountered Brown and another person Saturday afternoon in front of an apartment complex in Ferguson, Mo.
As the unnamed cop exited his squad car, one of the men pushed him back inside, where there was a struggle over the officer's weapon, Belmar said. At least one shot was fired in the car, hitting no one, he said.
The cop jumped out of his car and gave chase, striking Brown "more than a couple times" about 35 feet from the car, Belmar said.
All of the shell casings at the scene matched bullets from the officer's gun. Brown did not have a weapon, Belmar said.
"The genesis of this was a physical confrontation," he said, adding it is unclear which of the men was struggling with the cop.
Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson said the second person with Brown has not been arrested or charged.
As the law enforcement officials addressed the media at a local firehouse, hundreds of protesters chanted outside, "Don't shoot!" Later, some marched inside the adjacent police building.
Following a vigil, some looting and vandalism broke out in Ferguson, a predominantly black suburb. Several dozen protesters faced off with police in riot gear.
A spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said he had instructed lawyers in the department's Civil Rights Division to monitor developments in the case.
And the Rev. Al Sharpton announced that he planned to visit the area at the request of Brown's family to ensure a fair investigation.
Relatives continued to express disbelief at the killing of the teenager.
"My grandson never even got into a fight," said grandmother Desiree Harris. "He was just looking forward to getting on with his life. He was on his way."
Local news reports said Brown was set to start college Monday.
"My son just turned 18 and graduated high school, he didn't bother nobody," the distraught McSpadden told KSDK, a St. Louis station.erosenberg@nydailynews.com
