Shannon Bonds said she thought it would be more peaceful, when she moved to Los Angeles from Ferguson, Missouri. 
The 30-year-old singer said she left the city near St. Louis because she wanted to live in a more diverse area and get away from harassment from police for being black. 
When she heard that Michael Brown, 18, was shot to death by police in her hometown over the weekend, she said she was sad but unsurprised. 
But on Monday, Ezell Ford, 24, was identified by family members as the man fatally shot after being stopped on a sidewalk by two Los Angeles Police Department officers near 65th Street and Broadway. 
Both Brown and Ford were unarmed. Ford has been described as mentally disabled. 
Ford's death has sparked anger over differing accounts given by police and his family. 
"I've been watching this kind of news on TV for days and it's eating me alive," Bonds said. "We're here because we're tired of being targeted. We try to not think this is about race but it's so frequent with us that it's just how it looks."
As demonstrators took to the streets in Ferguson. Mo., to voice their anger at police, on Thursday hundreds did the same at Leimert Plaza Park in South Los Angeles to honor of Ford. 
And across the country, thousands of people in more than 90 cites took part in protest vigils for Brown as part of a National Moment of Silence Thursday.
The Los Angeles march was more peaceful that what had ensued in Missouri. They marched from the park down Crenshaw Boulevard for about five blocks with their hands raised, as if surrendering, many shouting "Don't shoot."
Many, representing civil rights groups, said they'd had enough. 
"This is an emergency protest," said protest organizer Keith James, a member of a grassroots group Stop Mass Incarceration Network. "This is to shine a spotlight on the egregious murder of Ford and others like him who are young and supposed to be the future."
Ford was walking on the sidewalk at around 8:10 p.m. Monday when two officers conducted an "investigative stop" according to a police statement. 
When they attempted to speak to Ford, he "continued walking and made suspicious movements, including attempting to conceal his hands."
Police officials say a struggle ensued and Ford tried to grab an officer's gun at which point he was shot. Family members say Ford was on the ground and complying with officers.
After the protest, many of the demonstrators arrived to the scene of the shooting on 65th Street near Broadway in the Florence neighborhood. 
Ezell's younger brother, Lavell Ford, 22, stood at a memorial set up on the sidewalk near the the site of the struggle. It was filled with candles, flowers and stuffed animals. 
Lavell Ford said he didn't expect the arrival of the group of demonstrators but added he was grateful for their presence. 
"My family appreciates the support," he said simply. "We really do."
A few remaining protestors made their way to the LAPD 77th Street station. Some said they hoped police would listen to them and take responsibility for Ezell Ford's death.
Bonds, who thought she was escaping the "senseless" killings in Ferguson, said she's disappointed that, to her, her new home in Los Angeles doesn't feel so different from what she left in the Midwest.
"It's just sad," she said. "Every day, you have to pray that it's not my little brother or cousin or me."
