The ugly clashes between police and protesters in this Missouri city have fueled a torrent of criticism and raised questions about whether the officers' tactics are inflaming the same violence they aim to suppress after the fatal shooting of Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager.
FERGUSON, Missouri - The images are reminiscent of a war zone: Helmeted officers pointing weapons from armored trucks, flash grenades lighting the night sky and tear gas exploding in crowded streets. 
A group of people hold up their arms during a nationwide moment of silence at a vigil to remember Missouri shooting victim Michael Brown and other victims, Aug 14, 2014. [Photo/IC]
The ugly clashes between police and protesters in this Missouri city have fueled a torrent of criticism and raised questions about whether the officers' tactics are inflaming the same violence they aim to suppress after the fatal shooting of Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager.
The protests escalated late Wednesday into smoky chaos after police lobbed tear gas to repel a crowd of about 150 protesters after some had thrown Molotov cocktails and rocks at officers. It was the fourth straight day of street confrontations spurred by Saturday's fatal shooting of the 18-year-old by a white police officer.
Police shift response to US protests after outcryMore than 60 people have been arrested since Sunday.
The repeated scenes of police officers wearing military-style camouflage and gas masks and training their rifles on unarmed civilians- some holding their hands up- led critics to condemn the unusual show of force, suggesting it looks more like an Army trying to quell a revolution than a police department trying to keep the peace in Ferguson, a small suburb of St. Louis.
"It's clear what is going on in Ferguson is a complete, hyper-exaggerated, hysterical response on the part of law enforcement," said Thomas Nolan, a former Boston police officer and criminal justice professor of the State University of New York at Plattsburgh. "It's clear that there is no one in charge and no one to corral the officers ... and restrain them from engaging in an unprecedented show of brutal force against civilians. It's horrifying and shameful and a disgrace."
Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson said Thursday that police are trying to balance the public's right to protest with public safety, including the need to keep streets open. But he added, "If firebombs are being thrown, property gets destroyed, shots get fired ... we have to respond to deadly force."
The events in Ferguson were seen as part of a growing trend among police departments around the US
A protester throws back a smoke bomb while clashing with police in Ferguson, Missouri August 13, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]
In June, the American Civil Liberties Union released a report stating that police were overwhelmingly relying on SWAT raids- involving the use of assault rifles, battering rams and flash-bang grenades _ for routine work such as searching for small amounts of drugs and serving warrants. These raids, the ACLU said, disproportionately affected minorities.
In several cases, the paramilitary-style approach led to tragedy, such as a 19-month-old baby critically injured when a flash-bang grenade landed in his crib.
St. Louis County police spokesman Brian Schellman defended the actions of the officers. "In talking to these guys, it is scary," he said. "They hear gunshots going off, and they don't know where they're coming from." He also said coins, bricks and rocks also have been thrown at police. Two officers have been injured. One had an ankle broken by a thrown brick, according to authorities.
St. Louis Police Chief Sam Dotson told The Associated Press he was so concerned about the way Ferguson officers have handled the unrest that he pulled his employees out. The city sent a 24-officer tactical squad to help control protesters Sunday and Monday night. The police chief said he was not being critical because he was not there, but the actions taken in Ferguson were not "tactics I would use in the city of St. Louis."
On Thursday, Gov. Jay Nixon announced that the Missouri State Highway Patrol would take over supervising security in Ferguson. He said the change was intended to ensure "that we use force only when necessary, that we step back a little bit."
A wide range of political figures called for calm and changes in the way protests would be monitored.
Taking a breaking from his vacation, President Barack Obama said while "emotions are raw now," there needs to be a "respect for public order and the right to peaceful public protests."
Nolan said Ferguson authorities need to scale back, get rid of the advanced weapons and the armored trucks and appeal to Brown's parents, community and religious leaders to stand with them and assure protesters and others there will be a thorough, impartial investigation into the teen's death.
"The brute force- it's not working," Nolan said.
Katy Campbell holds up a sign as she and others block Polk Street during a protest in San Francisco, Thursday, Aug 14, 2014. [Photo/IC]
Residents of South Los Angeles display signs about fatal shooting by Ferguson, Missouri police, of shooting victim Michael Brown, in the Leimert Park section of Los Angeles, California August 14, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]
