At last, the adults have arrived in Ferguson, Mo., six days after a huge, paramilitary police presence further inflamed residents hurting after the deadly shooting of an unarmed young man by a police officer yet to be identified. 
Bringing in the big guns, quite literally, after that, and pointing them at residents and reporters, was unacceptable.
Yet it took six days for Missouri Gov. Jay Nixon to take command from the local police departments that have made the inner-ring St. Louis suburb look and feel like a war zone.
And that long for President Obama to pull himself away from his vacation and say that the FBI and Department of Justice were looking into Brown's killing, and to ask for calm and restraint on all sides.
Yes, a handful of protesters have behaved badly, with looting on one night and a very few throwing flaming bottles at the police. Inexcusable.
Still, no officer has been badly hurt and the response - resembling something out of a bad action movie, and including a clampdown on peaceful protest - has been wholly out of proportion.
Cops have pointed sniper rifles at citizens with their hands up, as witnesses said 18-year-old Michael Brown's were when he was gunned down. No. That is the surest way to inflame a crowd, not calm it.
They have arrested reporters trying to report the news - on charges of "loitering" at a McDonald's. Fired tear gas and rubber bullets with little evident provocation and in residential neighborhoods. Used loudspeakers to order people to stop filming these acts.
No, no, no.
Those convinced of the perfidy of police officers have seized on it all to cry out that cops writ large are racist and running amok.
Wrong. New York City police, the numbers tell us, have grown increasingly restrained in firing their weapons or otherwise using deadly force.
The terrible tragedy of Eric Garner's death doesn't change that fact.
They also really ought to compare the Missouri mess to the official response to Garner's killing, in which the officer was quickly named and suspended and now will have the due process he is entitled to, and where citizens exercising their rights to protest have been treated with the respect they deserve.
Said New York Police Commissioner Bill Bratton this week, speaking about police shootings: "They will never go away; that's the nature of our lives, unfortunately. The idea is how you prevent them from happening and how you deal with them when do occur."
For a lesson in how not to deal with them, look no further than Ferguson.
