THERE'S A NEW sheriff in this shell-shocked Missouri town.
An officer in the state's Highway Patrol who grew up in Ferguson, Mo., and who - like most of the residents - is black, has been tapped to restore order after four straight nights of violence that have shocked the country.
"It means a lot to me personally that we break this cycle of violence," said Capt. Ron Johnson of the Highway Patrol. 
Johnson and a contingent of state troopers took over from the Ferguson Police Department and the St. Louis County Police, who have been widely criticized for their heavy-handed response to protests over the death of a black teen at the hands of a white cop.
In ordering the switch, Missouri Gov. Jay Nixon said he was seeking a "different tone" and calm in a town incensed over 18-year-old Michael Brown's killing.
As night fell Thursday on Ferguson, protesters were allowed to demonstrate peacefully, absent the volatility of Wednesday night's clashes between cops and demonstrators amid clouds of tear gas.
"I think I got their trust and I'll do everything to maintain that trust," Johnson said Thursday night. And, he vowed to a celebratory crowd: "The gas masks are off. Won't come back."
As part of the new openness, Ferguson police plan to release the name Friday of the officer who shot Brown, CNN reported.But Brian Schellman, a spokesman for the county police, defended Wednesday's use of tear gas, stun grenades, rubber bullets, and other hardware they've gotten from the Pentagon to keep protesters in line.
"In talking to these guys, it is scary," Schellman said of the officers. "They hear gunshots going off, and they don't know where they're coming from."
While acknowledging law enforcement's need to protect the public, Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) also said "we need to demilitarize this situation."Nixon's move came after President Obama said he was "deeply disturbed" by the chaos in the St. Louis suburb.
"I know that emotions are raw in Ferguson," he said. "But let's remember that we're all part of one American family. We are united in common values, and that includes the belief in equality under the law, respect for public order and the right to peaceful public protests."
Obama condemned attacks by demonstrators on police trying to maintain order in the tense town. But he added there was "no excuse" for police to use excessive force against demonstrators - or for cops to be "arresting journalists for trying to do their jobs."
The President was referring to the arrests of reporters from The Washington Post and Huffington Post who were detained briefly Wednesday by a half-dozen cops who stormed a McDonald's for reasons still unclear.
St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Robert McCulloch, who is investigating Brown's death to determine if charges should be brought against the officer who shot him, blasted Nixon for inserting Johnson into the fray.
"It's shameful what he did today, he had no legal authority to do that," McCulloch told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. "To denigrate the men and women of the county police department is shameful."In New York, Mayor de Blasio said he was "troubled" by the violence in Ferguson. Noting the lack of disturbances after a Staten Island dad was killed July 17 when a cop used a chokehold, the mayor said New York has the tradition "of respecting and properly managing peaceful protest."
"I'm not an expert on Missouri, but we have a very different reality here," he said.
The mayor spoke out after the hacker collective Anonymous posted the name of an officer the group blames for Brown's death. The Daily News did not publish it because there has been no official confirmation that it is accurate.
Ferguson Police Chief Tom Jackson has steadfastly refused to release the name of the cop - a six-year veteran witnesses have described as white - citing death threats as the reason.
The ACLU on Thursday filed a suit demanding the St. Louis County Police release the incident report of Saturday's shooting. The Rev. Al Sharpton, who has been consoling the Brown family and is planning a rally Sunday in Missouri, called on the Justice Department to monitor the way police are handling the crisis.
"Even if we disagree, this climate is not good for anyone and is dangerous for everyone," Sharpton said in a statement.
The chaos in Ferguson may not be over any time soon. McCulloch has warned it could be weeks before the investigation wraps up and authorities decide whether to charge the cop. The FBI has also launched a civil rights investigation into the killing. And the Brown family has asked for a second autopsy - this one monitored by the Justice Department.
As night fell, protesters once again began to gather, but there was no repeat of Wednesday's chaos, during which cops in riot gear clashed with hundreds of angry demonstrators, some of them hurling bottles and Molotov cocktails.
Jackson has maintained the cop shot Brown after he or Dorian Johnson, a friend he was walking in the street with, went for his gun. He said the officer was hospitalized with facial wounds. But he has also acknowledged there is no video footage of the shooting.
Johnson claims his pal was "shot like an animal" after the cop told him to get on the sidewalk. Johnson said the cop struggled with Brown and shot him in the back. As Brown tried to say he was unarmed, Johnson said, the officer fired more shots into his head and chest.
