Sometimes, you have to ask yourself a question: Do you want to speak up against injustice or will you remain silent, becoming complicit through complacency?
That is the question facing Canadians, as we sit here watching Ferguson, Miss., burn, while doing nothing. Our government is often quick to condemn far-off nations for acts of aggression against their own people, but when such oppression is perpetrated by our border buddies, our government is noticeable only by its absence.
For those unaware of the goings-on in Ferguson (and considering the paucity of coverage by Canada's traditional media of the Ferguson protests, ignorance would be understandable, though lamentable), a police officer killed Michael Brown, an unarmed black youth, in the St. Louis suburb of Ferguson. This occurred on Sunday. Some witness reports describe a murder, though the police say the lethal action was justified. In a clear display of disregard for human dignity, the police left Brown's body lying in the middle of the street for hours while officers did everything but investigate. 
Ferguson's population is 70 per cent black, and black residents are disproportionately subjected to traffic stops, searches and arrests. Brown's killing was not some aberration from an otherwise colour-blind police force; it was the natural escalation, given police have shown such clear disdain for the citizenry.
In the days since, protests have rolled through some of Ferguson's streets. Throughout these protests, the police have consistently escalated matters - coaxing, taunting residents into resistance. They are firing tear gas into backyards; they are shooting rubber and wooden bullets into crowds; they are tormenting media there to document this most recent struggle for civil rights.
And as a nation, we are silent.
There is a role for Canadian citizens to play. Though we can't all hop onto planes and fly to Ferguson (especially since the police have instituted a no-fly zone), we can still exert some pressure.
We can march on Parliament Hill or the United States Embassy. We can urge Prime Minister Stephen Harper and John Baird, the minister of foreign affairs and a local MP, to step in.
We can contact the NDP foreign affairs critic Paul Dewar, another local MP, and demand that he speak out against the past week's oppression of civil liberties.
We must also recognize the destructive circumstances that contributed to this continuing tragedy, ensuring that we don't replicate Missouri's errors, even if on a smaller scale.
Racial strife and the targeting of black residents by the Ferguson police are significant factors in this situation. As Canadians, we may wish to think that we are much further along in achieving a post-racial society than our brothers and sisters to the south, but we are likely fooling ourselves. The thousands of missing or murdered indigenous women, crimes that have not been solved, are testament to that.
Further, we can resist the continued militarization of our police forces. Looking at the pictures coming out of Ferguson, you might be surprised to learn that the military presence is actually the police.
Outfitted with combat gear, assault rifles and tanks - yes, tanks - the police are kitted up for war, not to protect and serve. It is a joke that we consider these men peace officers.
But before we worry too much about ourselves, we must help to free the residents of Ferguson from the police occupation. Over the last decade, we have involved ourselves in foreign entanglements in such places as Afghanistan and Libya, commending ourselves for helping the oppressed.
Now, our neighbours need our help, and the least we can do is speak up.
Jonathan McLeod is an Ottawa writer.
