Aug. 15--HOPEFULLY, the racial tensions that erupted in the aftermath of the Michael Brown shooting in a St. Louis suburb will ease soon.
Even so, the underlying causes of incidents like this one, in which a Ferguson, Mo., police officer is accused of shooting and killing the 18-year-old Brown last Saturday, remain.
Some years ago, I wrote a column in which I said that a police officer's badge had become a license to kill. I hold to that statement, mainly because the problem seems worse today than it was then. 
From the shooting of this unarmed teenager outside of St. Louis to the fatal chokehold initiated by an officer in New York, seldom does a week go by that there is not a story in the media about cops using unnecessary force.
It used to be that it was the victim's or some bystander's word against that of the officer. But in this day and age of cellphone video cameras, the evidence is often undeniable, and it's visible right there on TV or the Internet.
In the case of Michael Brown, the police say that, following some sort of confrontation, he and another young person struggled for the police officer's gun in a patrol car. An eyewitness, however, stated on national television that Brown was away from the car, had turned and had his hands in the air when fatally shot.
The key here may be the word "confrontation." Police officers too often seem to inflame a situation rather than calm things down. I have personally seen it happen a number of times. Inflammation then leads to confrontation, which leads to violence.
In Maryland, for example, an argument over a bus fare led to a confrontation with a police officer and the eventual death of the person arrested. Did the situation need to go that far? Or in such a violent direction?
It seems that some police officers consider everyone guilty--of something--until proven otherwise. That's not the way it is supposed to work.
Ordinary citizens have a problem with all this because we turn on the nightly news and see the people we are paying to protect us choking a man in New York or beating a woman senseless on a highway in California. And neither person, according to reports, had any kind of a weapon.
Even though allegations of police brutality are now popping up regularly, the media often does not want to point a finger of blame. To do so would be politically incorrect. Again, we don't know how to react when those we pay to protect us become judge, jury and sometimes executioner.
Then, too, the images we often see are of white cops beating black suspects. No one wants to touch that aspect of the problem either. That's too sensitive a subject.
But the problem is there. The cameras don't lie.
All this said, there is another aspect of the Michael Brown situation that needs discussing--the rioting and looting.
In front of cameras, rioters used Brown's death as an excuse to break into stores and steal whatever they could. One tire dealer reported almost a quarter of a million dollars in stolen merchandise and damaged property.
I can understand anger and protests, but looting and stealing in the name of a dead man is inexcusable. And, from the reports I read, race was not a factor.
The rioters seemed indiscriminate in their looting, hitting businesses owned by both whites and blacks, as well as other minorities.
In other words, they were stealing--no matter from whom--just because they felt they could get away with it.
As I have said many times, maybe America needs to clean up its own mess before we start telling the rest of the world how to live.
One look at the Michael Brown incident that ravaged a St. Louis suburb indicates that we still have plenty of problems here at home that need solving.
Donnie Johnston:
djohnston@freelancestar.com
___ (c)2014 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT Information Services
