Demonstrators in Ferguson, Mo. gathered on Wednesday for another round of protests over the death of Michael Brown, an unarmed teenager who was killed over the weekend by a police officer. Mr. Brown's death has triggered days of protests that have brought national attention to racial tension between the police and the African-American community in the St. Louis suburb.
The protesters showed up in droves, marching along the streets near where Mr. Brown was gunned down and staying well into the night. They were met by heavily armed riot police and SWAT teams in armored cars in scenes that were captured in photos and videos on social media with hashtags like #MikeBrown and #Ferguson. 
Police: Backup 25 feet now. pic.twitter.com/tXotbPlRra -- FOX2now (@FOX2now) August 14, 2014
In a nighttime protest that was streamed live online, protesters could be heard chanting ''We ain't leaving until we have justice.'' A line of police officers appeared to move closer to the crowd and fire what appeared to be rubber bullets and tear gas canisters, then set off sound cannons. A man narrating the video said the protest was peaceful and the attack was unprovoked. (Warning: the video contains strong language.)
A fleeing woman is enveloped by police tear gas here in #Ferguson last night. My clothes & hair stink of the stuff. pic.twitter.com/8hMrwricPL -- Toby Harnden (@tobyharnden) August 14, 2014
Fox 2 St. Louis, the local television station, shared a similar video clip.
[Video: Raw Video - Police shoot tear gas Watch on YouTube.]
Tim Norman, the co-owner of Sweetie Pie's, a trio of comfort food restaurants in St. Louis, posted a picture of a rubber bullet that he said was fired on a crowd that included women and children.
The violent turn followed protests in the day that featured bands and children chanting.
Children chat: "Justice for Mike Brown!" https://t.co/HejVixnnMk -- Antonio French (@AntonioFrench) August 13, 2014
Maria Chappelle-Nadal, a state senator, joined demonstrators staging a sit-in on W. Florissant Avenue, a major roadway.
Police demanding marchers leave. State Sen. Maria Chappelle-Nadal refusing to stand. "Sit down for Michael Briwn!" pic.twitter.com/qLSUAy88Bn -- Trymaine Lee (@trymainelee) August 13, 2014
By nightfall, the scene had grown tense as protesters refused to comply with the police's demands that they leave the streets, and the police responded with force.
Police: "This is your final warning." Protesters at front not nudging pic.twitter.com/IdbP8s962Z -- Jon Swaine (@jonswaine) August 14, 2014
Happening now in #Ferguson https://t.co/tQPFmnYExX -- Antonio French (@AntonioFrench) August 14, 2014
The police said protesters threw bottles and Molotov cocktails at officers. At least 10 people were arrested.
At least 10 arrests tonight in #Ferguson. -- Julie Bosman (@juliebosman) August 14, 2014
Two reporters said they were working inside a McDonald's when the police arrived and arrested them for trespassing. The reporters, Wesley Lowery of The Washington Post and Ryan J. Reilly of The Huffington Post, said on Twitter that they were roughed up by the officers, who refused to provide their names and badges or answer questions. The reporters said they were released without charges or an explanation.
Antonio French, a St. Louis alderman who had been following the protests all week, was also arrested, his wife said on Twitter. She called on elected officials to help secure his release.
@SenatorNasheed Hi, @AntonioFrench has been detained in Ferguson. cc @MariaChappelleN -- Senka (@senka) August 14, 2014
The police said no civilians were hurt in the protests, although an officer was injured.
Officer taken to hospital with apparent broken ankle; spokesman for police said a protester threw a brick at him. #Ferguson -- Julie Bosman (@juliebosman) August 14, 2014
The protests spread beyond the St. Louis area to Washington, where students at Howard University staged a silent protest in honor of Mr. Brown and of Mya White, an alumna who had been documenting the events near St. Louis before she was shot in the forehead Wednesday morning in what police said was a drive-by shooting.
Powerful picture we took today at Howard University #Ferguson #MikeBrown #MyaWhite #DONTSHOOT pic.twitter.com/ttdVg33n5w -- Megan Sims (@The_Blackness48) August 14, 2014
@brendadc it wasn't a group really. We had a meeting about freshman move-in and we also felt we needed to respond to the Mike Brown issue. -- Megan Sims (@The_Blackness48) August 14, 2014
The police said Ms. White's injury was not life-threatening, and she appeared alert in a photo posted to her Instagram account.
Missouri's governor, Jay Nixon, said on Twitter that he was canceling a Thursday appearance at a state fair in order to travel to the area. Mr. Nixon called the situation in Ferguson an ''ongoing crisis.''
Situation in Ferguson does not represent who we are. Must keep the peace, while safeguarding rights of citizens and the press -- Governor Jay Nixon (@GovJayNixon) August 14, 2014
Ms. Bosman said protesters and police officers were wondering the same thing:
Tonight, both a protester and police officer asked me the same question: "When do you think this is going to end?" #Ferguson -- Julie Bosman (@juliebosman) August 14, 2014
Outside the police station in Ferguson, the answer remained elusive as protesters camped out overnight.
There's a crowd across from the #Ferguson police department. pic.twitter.com/vCmqdryaJ6 -- Michael Calhoun (@michaelcalhoun) August 14, 2014
There are probably 100 police officers and less than a dozen protestors left outside the #Ferguson police station. -- Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) August 14, 2014
Phone dying, tweets will stop. Chants of "Hands up, don't shoot" and "what if this was your town" will continue tonight in Ferguson -- Wesley Lowery (@WesleyLowery) August 14, 2014
