A black teenager who was fatally shot by a police officer had his hands raised when the officer approached him with his weapon drawn and fired repeatedly, according to two men who said they witnessed the shooting. 
The FBI opened an investigation Monday into the death of 18-yearold Michael Brown, who police said was shot multiple times Saturday after being confronted by an officer in Ferguson, a 21,000-resident suburb of St. Louis that's nearly 70 per cent black.
Authorities were vague about exactly what led the officer to open fire, except to say that the shooting was preceded by a scuffle of some kind. It was unclear whether Brown or a man he was with was involved in the altercation.
The killing sparked a night of unrest in Ferguson and drew criticism from some civil rights leaders, who referred to the 2012 racially charged shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin by a Florida neighbourhood watch organizer who was acquitted of murder charges.
Investigators have refused to disclose the race of the officer, who is now on administrative leave. But Phillip Walker said he was on the porch of an apartment complex overlooking the scene when he heard a shot and saw a white officer with Brown on the street.
Brown "was giving up in the sense of raising his arms and being subdued," Walker said Monday.
The officer "had his gun raised and started shooting the individual in the chest multiple times." The officer then "stood over him and shot him" after the victim fell wounded.
Dorian Johnson offered a similar account, saying he and Brown were walking home from a convenience store when a police officer told them to get out of the street and on to the sidewalk. Johnson said they kept walking, which caused the officer to confront them from his car and again after getting out of his car.
Johnson said the first time the officer fired, he and Brown got scared and ran away.
"He shot again, and once my friend felt that shot, he turned around and put his hands in the air, and he started to get down," Johnson said. "But the officer still approached with his weapon drawn and fired several more shots.
"We wasn't causing harm to nobody. We had no weapons on us at all." Walker said that he did not see a scuffle or the circumstances surrounding the first gunshot.
The St. Louis County Police Department refused to discuss Johnson's remarks, citing the ongoing investigation. But county police Chief Jon Belmar previously said that an officer encountered Brown and another man outside an apartment complex, and that one of the men pushed the officer into his squad car and they struggled over the officer's weapon.
