Higher authorities wisely stepped into the St. Louis suburb of Ferguson, Mo., on Thursday after a night that startled the nation with images of police overkill: flash grenades, rubber bullets and huge clouds of tear gas fired at demonstrators protesting the police shooting Saturday of an unarmed black teenager.
Gov. Jay Nixon -- after keeping a low profile for too long -- made an urgent tour of the town and replaced local police officers with the Missouri State Highway Patrol. He gave the Highway Patrol an order that should have been given over the weekend: Let protesters who are angry about the shooting protest peacefully, without aggressive demands to disperse, as is their constitutional right. 
It's time to make sure, he said, ''that we allow peaceful and appropriate protests, that we use force only when necessary, that we step back a little bit and let some of the energy be felt in this region appropriately.''
Earlier in the day, President Obama denounced tactics of ''excessive force'' by the police and the ''bullying'' and arrest of journalists trying to cover the news. He said the federal investigation into the incident, which began earlier this week, must determine exactly what happened to Michael Brown, the 18-year-old shooting victim.
Local authorities, including the police, have ''a responsibility to be open and transparent about how they are investigating that death and how they are protecting the people in their communities,'' Mr. Obama said, noting the ''violent turn'' in street confrontations that have been seen on screens around the world.
The two executives conferred and acted after anger and frustration in the streets had descended into widespread looting by some protesters earlier in the week, countered by aggressive street policing by officers outfitted in war gear who too often veered toward provocation more than protection. ''The police response has become part of the problem,'' Senator Claire McCaskill told residents during a visit, saying authorities had to ''demilitarize'' the force, which has aimed sniper rifles at innocent protesters and sent tear gas into people's backyards.
Chief among the transparency issues for protesters has been local authorities' adamant and inexcusable refusal to identify the police officer who shot Mr. Brown, saying the officer faced death threats. Residents have a right to know whether the officer has a record of reckless behavior, and whether the officer lives in the community among the residents being patrolled, or in a very different neighborhood.
Other communities across the nation have safely demonstrated greater openness in similarly tense situations by eventually identifying and protecting an officer as a matter of the public's right to know. This should be the course taken in Ferguson if citizens are not to be further outraged at embattled authorities' stonewalling. ''When we get answers, things will calm down,'' one resident told The Times's Julie Bosman.
Mr. Nixon said Ferguson would become known ''as a community that pulled together to overcome'' violence. But first local politicians and law enforcement leaders will have to talk to residents to understand the deep vein of mistrust that has grown over the decades.
Restoring a sense of justice will not be an easy task in the town of 21,000, which is 69 percent black yet remains under white government leadership. While authorities have the right to respond forcefully to looting and violent rioting, the unyielding use of military tactics and abusive behavior have widened that rift. Once the tear gas has dissipated, Mr. Nixon and Mr. Obama have an obligation to ensure that a real dialogue begins in Ferguson and other racially segregated areas, in hopes of keeping armored vehicles off the streets of America.
