Barack Obama attempted yesterday to defuse the escalating standoff in Missouri between protesters and police after an officer shot dead an unarmed teenager at the weekend, calling for calm and stressing that there was no excuse for excessive force by the police.
After a fourth night of confrontation on the streets of Ferguson over the death of Michael Brown on Saturday, the US president said he regretted loss of life, deplored the arrest of journalists covering the flashpoint and urged a state of peace. 
"We lost a young man in heartbreaking and tragic circumstances," Obama said of Brown. "He was 18 years old, his family will never hold (him) in their arms again."
He said there was no excuse for violence against police, but equally there was "no excuse for police to use excessive force" in their response.
Appealing for calm, he said: "Now's the time for healing, now's the time for peace and calm on the streets of Ferguson."
He also condemned the arrests of reporters. "Here in the United States of America police should not be bullying or arresting journalists who are just trying to do their jobs."
His comments came amid growing confrontation in Ferguson, where residents of the majority black town of 21,000 people have been protesting against the killing of Brown by an officer from the overwhelmingly white police force.
The response to the protest had been led by the St Louis County police force, which has deployed snipers, as well as armoured vehicles and officers in military combat gear to quell protests on successive evenings since Brown's death.
Two reporters, from the Washington Post and the Huffington Post, were arrested on Wednesday night.
Marty Baron, the editor of the Washington Post, condemned the arrest as "an assault on the freedom of the press to cover the news".
Yesterday the governor of Missouri stood down the police force from leading the response to the demonstrations.
Jay Nixon handed responsibility for law and order to the Missouri state highway patrol, led by an African American captain raised in Ferguson.
"We all have been concerned about the vision that the world has seen," Nixon said. Promising a "softer front", he said that a new command would ensure that "we allow peaceful and appropriate protests, that we use force only when necessary, that we step back a little bit".
Ronald Johnson, captain of the highway patrol, signalled a different tone. He told reporters: "Before I came here today, I had all my troopers take their teargas masks off their belts."
Nixon said that St Louis County police, although removed from the front line, would continue to lead the investigation into Brown's death.
The senior US senator for Missouri, Claire McCaskill, said she had been working to "demilitarise" the situation.
She said yesterday: "This kind of response by the police has become the problem instead of the solution. I obviously respect law enforcement's work to provide public safety, but my constituents are allowed to have peaceful protests, and the police need to respect that right and protect that right.
"Today is going to be a new start, we can and need to do better."
Protesters took to the streets after Brown was shot dead by police on Saturday afternoon. The police have refused to release the name of the officer involved in the shooting, citing concerns for that person's safety.
On Wednesday night the heavily armed police force fired teargas and rubber bullets to force hundreds of protesters out of the centre of town.
Dozens of officers, some carrying assault rifles, advanced with a pair of armoured trucks on the young and predominantly African American crowd in Ferguson, after two glass bottles were thrown at their lines.
One man, who had his arms aloft in the "hands up - don't shoot" gesture that has come to define these protests, was shot several times. After he fell to the ground, he was pounced upon by several officers.
"They hit me on the hand with a teargas bomb," said Tony Giegers, 27. "It exploded on me, kind of like buckshot. It sprayed everywhere. It hit me there on my hand and burned my hand. It's burning right now, it's burning up."
A highly visible camera crew for the television channel al-Jazeera America, who were reporting on the clashes, said that they, too, were shot at with rubber bullets. The Guardian watched as a gas canister was fired directly at them as they attempted to record a piece to camera. The crew and their presenter fled.
"The police are responding with force, which you can understand to a certain degree," said Justin, a 29-year-old protester. "But this amount of force was unwarranted. This is an abuse of force. No one is firing guns at them or running at them. This is an overreach.
"Were people yelling at them? Were people shouting obscenities? Yes, that's normal. But no one rioted, no one looted, no one threatened harm. This is getting out of control. It's like a military action."
Police have said that Saturday's shooting followed an assault on the officer. But a friend who was walking with Brown said that the 18-year-old had been grabbed after declining a request to get on to the pavement. He was then shot repeatedly as he tried to run away.
Captions:
Riot police fired teargas on the streets of Ferguson, Missouri, on the fourth night of protests after the shooting of an unarmed youth
Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters
