Are police becoming less like public servants - and more like elite military forces?
It's a pointed and important question being asked in the United States, following what many believe was a disproportionate display of force Wednesday in Ferguson, Mo., where demonstrations have taken place daily since the shooting of an unarmed teenager on the weekend.
On a live video stream that night, protesters appeared to be peaceful. They were chanting and shouting for justice in the wake of Michael Brown's death, but they were not at that point engaging in violence. The police, however, responded with stun grenades, tear gas, smoke bombs and a piercing acoustical weapon - along with the arrest of journalists simply doing their jobs.
That type of response - what some would call increasing "militarization" of police forces - was raised in detail in June, with the release of an American Civil Liberties Union report titled "War Comes Home: The Excessive Militarization of American Policing." Among other things, the report analyzed more than 800 special weapons and tactical (SWAT) deployments conducted over a two-year period. 
"American policing has become unnecessarily and dangerously militarized," it states, "in large part through federal programs that have armed state and local law enforcement agencies with the weapons and tactics of war, with almost no public discussion or oversight."
Many U.S. police forces now have some of the tools usually found in war zones, such as armoured personnel carriers. And some units dress more like special-ops Navy SEALS than anything resembling a police officer.
"The use of hyper-aggressive tools and tactics results in tragedy for civilians and police officers, escalates the risk of needless violence, destroys property and undermines individual liberties," the report states.
The majority of the SWAT deployments studied (62 per cent) were carried out for the purpose of drug searches. And that, says the ACLU, is not an appropriate use.
"SWAT was created to deal with emergency situations such as hostage, barricade and active shooter scenarios," says its report.
"Over time, however, law enforcement agencies have moved away from this original purpose and are increasingly using these paramilitary squads to search people's homes for drugs," says the ACLU report.
In Canada, some observers point to recent developments such as the purchase of a sound cannon - able to send protesters scurrying with intense and temporarily disabling sound pressure levels - by the Toronto Police Service. Or the mass "kettling" of G20 protesters (and non-protesters alike) by police in full riot gear. Or the removal of name tags, making officers part of a single, anonymous force.
Those instances, and others, lead to suggestions that the militarization phenomenon is creeping north.
"It is absolutely a very real issue," says Margaret Beare, professor of law and sociology at York University.
"We saw it in the G20. Once you armour somebody like that, then the whole function becomes different ... You move away from the pretense of any sort of civility and respect and social justice, and the idea of sort of a negotiated agreement between police and citizens. You lose that."
If that is indeed happening, some say there's a very real risk that the bond the public ideally feels with police will become supplanted with something very different.
"They begin to fear the police, rather than seeing the police as their defenders," says Dalhousie University sociology professor Chris Murphy.
"The police represent the public, are here to protect them. And I think this technology gives off a very different vibe. But, to be fair, we've been pretty restrained in Canada to date."
The Ontario Association of Chiefs of Police counters that we're in an age when public perceptions - and misconceptions - can be shaped and distorted very quickly through social media. Throw up a clip of a confrontation without context, and a viewer may reach a skewed conclusion.
"People's perceptions of their police services are being shaped in a fundamentally different way these days," says Joe Couto, the association's director of government relations and communications.
"So people watching a YouTube video will draw their own conclusions ... It's incumbent upon police to use the same tools to try to put the context around an incident if we can."
Couto also points out that police forces are highly regulated: they cannot simply go out and start buying new weapons and technology just because they feel like it. There is provincial oversight for such purchases.
He also emphasizes that police are guided by the community policing model, which has its roots in the 1800s in the U.K. with Sir Robert Peel. Under that model, officers are regarded as fellow citizens, with the responsibility to exercise their powers with the public's implicit consent.
"Here in Ontario, we've always been very cognizant of the need to ensure that our model of policing is consistent with that British model of policing," he says. "I can tell you every time we purchase a new tool, there's a reason behind it."
Others suggest Canadian police are influenced, some say heavily, by U.S. policing trends. Chiefs attend some common conferences where new tools and techniques are explored. Some also suggest the notion of community policing today bears little resemblance to what Peel envisioned.
"The original idea of police being purely servants of the public, enforcing the law and maintaining order and preventing crime - that kind of soft approach to policing long ago was dissolved in favour of a more harder-line law enforcement approach," says Simon Fraser University criminology professor and associate dean Rob Gordon, who in a previous career was a police officer in London.
"I've noticed a creeping militarization in this country ... because policing fashions in the U.S. tend to have a fairly major impact on policing fashions in Canada ...
"We acquired SWAT teams sometime after the Americans did," Gordon notes. "What started out as being an initiative and a unit that was to deal with a short-term problem has now become an established feature of policing. And if you don't have a SWAT team, you're quite clearly policing in the boonies."
He says even the nature of the uniforms has changed. Peel, back in the 1800s, insisted that police uniforms be very different from anything resembling the military.
"When they're dressed like combat troops in Iraq (as some special units do), I think that's not a good image."
There was also consensus, at least among academics, that using more military-like tools can change how a situation might unfold. Rather than negotiate an end to a crisis, the temptation might be to force it.
"It's sort of this 'fix it now' attitude that you get when you have all this equipment," says Gordon.
The Ontario Association of Chiefs of Police is adamant the community policing model will continue to guide forces into the future. But spokesperson Couto acknowledges that, despite the fact police are fellow citizens operating with our consent, they have a job that occasionally takes them out of that friendly community role.
"We understand how the perception could be that it's sort of a military force," he says. "But policing in its very nature is paramilitary. Let's not forget that police officers are citizens who are given special responsibilities and duties to enforce laws. That's the nature of policing.
"I've talked to some folks on social media who say couldn't we have officers who don't have firearms - the traditional Bobby of the old days. Unfortunately, our world is different. And so our tools are different."
