As I've watched, like millions of others, the tensions in Ferguson,  Mo., escalate, I can't help but think back to my childhood in the  1960s watching American cities burn due to race riots while  National Guard troops were fitted out in heavy combat gear, ready  for war. The great irony being, of course, that America was already  at war, and up to its neck in it, on the other side of the world in  Vietnam.  
    For those of us who grew up watching Presidents Kennedy, Johnson  and Nixon deliver similar addresses, President Obama's press  briefing Thursday from Massachusetts about Ferguson and also about  the U.S. military involvement in Iraq felt more than a little like  dj vu.   
  Obama cited progress in Iraq, where the U.S. military efforts are  meant to save fleeing Yazidi refugees from the onslaught of the  rejuvenated militant jihadist juggernaut known as the Islamic  State, and also bring some stability to a country torn by war -- a  country this nation occupied, at great cost, for nearly a decade.  
    The president also called for calm in Ferguson, where it seems a  community is on the verge of exploding over the still unexplained  shooting of Michael Brown, a black teen-ager, by a police officer  last Saturday afternoon.  
    As Slate.com's Jamelle Bouie writes about the situation playing out  in Ferguson, "Image after image shows officers clad in Kevlar  vests, helmets, and camouflage, armed with pistols, shotguns,  automatic rifles, and tear gas." There is no need to call out the  National Guard when the everyday police look as though they are  armed up enough to storm a hill in Kandahar Province.  
    Community                     on the edge  
    It doesn't take much to imagine this Ferguson stand-off spinning  out of control in a very ugly way. Certainly, there is pressure on  people in uniform to maintain order and also to keep their cool,  show restraint. Let me say I would not want their job.  
    Yet it is also easy to see why the African-American community in  Ferguson is on edge, as urban communities across this country are  all too often on edge, given the often heavy police presence, but  also a seeming lack of governmental concern regarding other  matters, such as jobs and child care.  
    Generally speaking, the black people in Ferguson want answers, and  they are being given few. Rioting and property destruction is not  the way to go, but no doubt many feel that protest -- an act so  very engrained in America's identity -- is the only recourse.  
    Indeed, it is difficult for me to understand how Obama can utter  the words "now is a time for healing" and "now is a time for peace  and calm on the streets of Ferguson," when folks in that town have  heretofore been treated with all the delicacy, say, of a vanquished  people by an invading force that is armed to the teeth.  
    Longtime                           racial wounds  
    It's hard for me to see how the gathering rage enveloping Ferguson  is going to be soothed as long as policing authorities are  outwardly showing such a militant-like stance when the very  incident that lit the fuse on this fire must have a lot to do with  deep-seated distrust in some neighborhoods between the police and  the people living on the streets they patrol.  
    Longtime racial wounds have never fully healed in this country.  That's no secret to anyone willing to open their eyes. The scabs  are too easily pulled off, especially when an unarmed Trayvon  Martin is shot by a neighborhood watch resident in Florida, for  reasons still unclear, and when another black teenager, Michael  Brown, is shot and killed by police, once more, for reasons  unclear.  
    Whatever explanation for the Brown shooting may yet be revealed,  when local police dress like characters in a 'Call of Duty" video  game, and become belligerent with two journalists merely sitting  inside a McDonald's trying to do their jobs, it tells you a lot  about the mindset. Had I not been given a setup before watching the  video of the confrontation between police and the Washington Post's  Wesley Lowery (no relation) Wednesday night, I would have thought  surely this is a member of some military group, in some other  country, moving to stifle a member of the press.  
    Yet just like in the '60s, that journalist was an American. And the  person doing the confronting was no military-trained, special-ops  recruit, but a member of the local police department. Yes, at this  point in time, I'd say we all have good reason to be afraid.  
    Bruce Lowry is the assistant editorial page editor for the Herald  News.
