ST. LOUIS o A public cry for the name of the Ferguson police officer who killed Michael Brown is a fresh and uncommonly loud iteration of a recurring debate on the balance between police credibility and a public servant's safety.
Although many departments around the country do release officers' names and details of use-of-force investigations, there is no consensus. And it has been far from routine in the St. Louis area, where the subject has sparked controversy for years. 
St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Robert McCulloch insisted Wednesday that no details of the Brown investigation will be released until a grand jury reviews them. But the National Bar Association and American Civil Liberties Union positioned themselves to fight for release of information they say should be immediately public by law.
Some people protesting Saturday's shooting of Brown, 18, who was unarmed, have loudly demanded the officer's name without explaining what they would do with it.
Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson said Monday he would release the name once the officer and his family were somewhere safe, but later in the week declared that he would provide it only under court order or if the officer were charged with a crime.
Jeff Roorda, business manager of the St. Louis Police Officers Association, is so opposed to release of the names that as a state legislator he once tried to pass legislation to protect them. "These guys face threats during their eight-hour shifts," he said. "They shouldn't have to face them at home."
Roorda said the public's right to know can be accommodated through the normal investigative process.
"If they did something wrong, they're going to be charged criminally and everyone should know what their name is," he said. He also acknowledged that the name could become public if a lawsuit is filed.
A lawyer said to be representing the Ferguson officer declined to comment Wednesday.
Local union officials representing Ferguson officers did not return calls. Kevin Ahlbrand, president of the Missouri Fraternal Order of Police, said simply, "The less said the better on our part."
ACLU Executive Director Jeffrey Mittman said some in the public have a lack of trust in how police shootings are investigated. "And we think that starting off by denying the public the right to a document we're entitled to is not the way to begin a difficult time."
Mittman said there is no "officer risk" exemption in Missouri's Sunshine Law. "There are other ways of dealing with that issue," he said.
Both the ACLU and National Bar have filed open records requests. The ACLU, which asked for initial incident reports from Ferguson and St. Louis County police, has not received a response from Ferguson but was turned down by the county, said Tony Rothert, its legal director.
Neither Ferguson nor the county has responded to similar requests by the Post-Dispatch.
Names of St. Louis city police officers who used deadly force were never officially released before 2009, although the Post-Dispatch regularly obtained them. Since that time, a policy keeps the names secret until a "threat assessment" clears them for release.
"Almost always, there's going to be some level of threat," said Neil Bruntrager, who has represented numerous officers involved in shootings and who is general counsel for the officers association. He said that releasing the name could put an officer at risk, "perhaps, for years to come."
The Internet complicates the issue.
"If you have any social media presence, I can get a picture of you. I can find out where you live," Bruntrager said. "I can follow you home. This threat now extends to whoever you live with."
"And that's why these things don't get released."
He said that in places where the names are released, "Everybody is prepared for it. There is a culture change." He said officers there likely have a reduced social media or none at all.
Social media speculation that named a particular Ferguson officer in the Brown shooting was wrong, Jackson said, and led to death threats.
Even someone who has supported the release of officers' names following a threat assessment urged caution Wednesday in the Ferguson incident.
"When there are death threats, you've got to take them seriously," said David Klinger, a University of Missouri-St. Louis criminologist and deadly force specialist. "It would be irresponsible to release his name right now."
Klinger's name was made public by the Los Angeles Police Department in 1981 when he killed a man who attacked a fellow officer with a butcher knife. Klinger said he "didn't have a problem" with it at the time, but he was protected by the anonymity of a large police department in a large city, in a case that had not become a "big cause clbre."
Noting the magnitude of the Ferguson shooting backlash, he said, "Even if this was an LA cop, this would be disconcerting."
