A second man was shot by police in the early hours of yesterday morning in the Missouri city where an unarmed black teenager was killed at the weekend, sparking widespread protests. 
Police said the man was shot in Ferguson by a St Louis County officer after he pointed a handgun at the officer soon after 1am, after fresh demonstrations over the death on Saturday of Michael Brown, 18.
The officer was responding to reports of shots being fired and men wearing ski masks carrying shotguns. Reports said the man was in a critical condition in hospital and a gun was recovered at the scene.
A woman was separately being treated in hospital after being shot in the head during a drive-by shooting in the city.
The incidents came after a peaceful end to a tense standoff between protesters and police, prompting hopes that a third night of violence might be avoided.
Ferguson police refused on Tuesday to release the name of the officer who shot Brown.
While police say that Brown assaulted the officer during a struggle, witnesses said he was shot while trying to run away after being grabbed by the officer when he and a friend would not leave the road and walk on the pavement.
The officer has been placed on paid leave while the shooting is investigated. The FBI is also looking into whether there were civil rights violations.
On Tuesday, President Barack Obama described Brown's death as "heartbreaking". Noting the FBI investigation, he appealed for calm. "I know the events of the past few days have prompted strong passions but, as details unfold, I urge everyone in Ferguson, Missouri, and across the country to remember this young man through reflection and understanding. We should comfort each other and talk with one another in a way that heals, not in a way that wounds."
Friends and family of Brown held a church vigil on Tuesday night, after his father pleaded for an end to the violence. Standing with supporters, including Al Sharpton, a civil rights activist, Michael Brown Sr said he wanted justice for his son but wanted it "the right way".
"I need all of us to come together and do this right, the right way," Brown Sr said. The official response to Brown's death has been rejected as insultingly inadequate by many African American residents of Ferguson, a city of about 21,000 people where 67% of the population is black, yet 94% of the police force - and prominent figures in local government, such as the mayor - are white.
Captions:
Michael Brown, 18, was shot and killed by a police officer, which has led to
angry protests and appeals for an end to violence
