TURNING UGLY: When residents chanting, "Don't shoot, my hands are up," refused to leave, officers began deploying tear gas.Photo: Getty Images/Scott Olson Anger simmers over teen death by police By Wesley Lowery in Ferguson, Missouri For a third night, summer rage pitted the people of Ferguson against those sworn to protect them. 
On Saturday, officers shot and killed 18-year-old Michael Brown.
On Sunday, resident protests turned to riots, marked by looting and the burning of several local stores.
And, taking to the streets again Monday night, locals were met with tear gas and rubber bullets.
Protests against police brutality turned contentious early on Monday evening, leading to a standoff between residents and dozens of officers in riot gear just blocks from where Mr Brown was gunned down.
And the chief of police said on Tuesday that he had reconsidered his decision to release the name of the police officer involved in the fatal shooting of an unarmed African-American teenager and would not do so because of concerns about the officer's safety.
"The value of releasing the name is far outweighed by the risk of harm to the officer and his family," the police chief, Thomas Jackson, said.
The chief's change of heart came amid another day of protests in the St Louis suburbs where Mr Brown was shot several times Saturday by an officer as he and a friend walked from a corner shop to his grandmother's apartment.
The circumstances of the shooting remain in dispute. Police say Brown hit the officer and tried to steal his gun; Brown's family and friends deny that.
The FBI has opened a civil rights inquiry into the shooting and the case is being investigated by StLouis County police. The results of an autopsy on Mr Brown have not been released.
The protests against the local police have at times turned violent.
The police have made more than 40 arrests since Sunday night and fired tear gas and rubber bullets at demonstrators.
In an attempt to disperse the crowd on Monday night, officers made their way down West Florissant, a main street in Ferguson.
When some residents, chanting, "Don't shoot, my hands are up," refused to leave, officers began deploying tear gas.
The police activity only further incited the crowd, with some people lying in the street with their hands in the air, chanting: "Go home, killers."
Others fled, crying out for water as stinging tear gas bit at their eyes.
As police continued to press forward, they demanded that residents "get out of the street," "return to your homes" and "go home now."
In turn, residents responded: "These are our homes."
As he ran past this reporter, a middle-aged man summed up the terrifying feeling that permeated the now-quiet Ferguson streets: "And this is only day three ..."
Washington Post, New York Times
