@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;US President Barack Obama appealed for calm after what he called the "heartbreaking" death of a black teenager killed in a police shooting in Missouri that sparked rioting.
Looters targeted more than a dozen businesses in the St Louis suburb of Ferguson overnight on Sunday after a vigil [#x20ac]" on the sidewalk where Michael Brown died [#x20ac]" erupted into clashes with police armed with tear gas, clubs and rubber bullets.
"The death of Michael Brown is heartbreaking, and Michelle and I send our deepest condolences to his family and his community at this very difficult time," Obama said in a statement, his first public reaction to the incident, which has stirred racial tensions. 
"I know the events of the past few days have prompted strong passions, but as details unfold, I urge everyone in Ferguson, Missouri, and across the country, to remember this young man through reflection and understanding," Obama added.
The FBI opened a civil rights investigation on Monday into Brown's death, with his family demanding justice.
@HD2 New Briefs head;Beware of too much exercise
@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;Running more than 6.5km a day could be dangerous to your health, according to a study that examined how much exercise is too much.
Researchers focused on 2,400 heart attack survivors and found that the more exercise they did, the less risk they faced of dying from heart disease [#x20ac]"up to a point.
Benefits began to decline among those who ran more than 48km per week.
Among walkers, the turning point, when benefits were lost, was seen in those who did more than 75km per week, or 10.5km per day.
Even more, there was a statistically significant cardiovascular risk associated with the highest levels of exercise, said the study led by Paul Williams of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and Paul Thompson of the Department of Cardiology at Hartford Hospital.
The researchers cautioned that since their study focused on heart attack survivors, their "results might not be generalisable to the population at large".
"For patients with heart disease, almost all should be exercising, and generally most should be exercising 30-40 minutes most days," said Carl Lavie, a cardiologist at the John Ochsner Heart and Vascular Institute in New Orleans.
@HD2 New Briefs head;Gunmen steal $7 million
@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;Eight masked gunmen made off with more than US$7 million (Bt224 million) from an armoured truck at the airport in the Chilean capital Santiago, the largest robbery in the country's #124history.
The robbers arrived in three vehicles and held up the guards escorting the truck from US security firm Brink's.
The truck had been ferrying cash for an air delivery to banks and mining operations in northern Chile, local newspapers reported.
@HD2 New Briefs head;Bieber to plead guilty
@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;Justin Bieber will plead guilty to lesser charges following his arrest for driving under the influence in Miami last January.
The Canadian pop singer will agree to attend an anger management class and make a US$50,000 (Bt1.6 million) charitable contribution.
Bieber was arrested after an alleged drag racing incident, and police say he admitted to having smoked marijuana and taken the prescription drug Xanax.
The 20-year-old drove a Lamborghini in the alleged race with his friend Khalil Sharieff and was reported to have used obscene words during his arrest.
@HD2 New Briefs head;'Save British pubs'
@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;Iron Maiden singer Bruce Dickinson called for a fightback to save the traditional British pub as the Great British Beer Festival got underway on Tuesday.
The frontman for the British heavy metal pioneers blasted the rise of soulless, US-style bars pumping out "really awful music" [#x20ac]" and blamed it on their giant chain owners seeing pubs as "cash cows" rather than community hubs.
The Great British Beer Festival transforms London's Olympia exhibition hall into the biggest pub in the world, serving an expected 55,000-plus punters over five days until Saturday. [#x20ac]" AFP
