Nearly a week after Michael Brown, an unarmed 18-year-old black man, was shot dead by a white police officer in Ferguson, Mo., the circumstances remain as murky as the nearby Mississippi River during a flood. Police and a Brown friend tell radically different stories about whether the shooting was justified or something closer to homicide. 
It's too early for conclusions about the shooting. But the behavior of the Ferguson police department is another matter.
Its heavy handed, unprofessional tactics since the shooting raise grave doubts about both its competence and its credibility. It certainly cannot be trusted to investigate itself or, for that matter, to protect the community.
Police have enraged the public they serve by showing little respect for constitutional rights and little recognition of how Brown's killing has tapped into a deep vein of distrust of law enforcement among African Americans. By refusing to disclose basic information, including the name of the officer who shot Brown and autopsy results that could shed light on the case, they've needlessly raised suspicion.
Certainly, the officer and his family need protection, but a police department is fully capable of achieving that goal without resorting to stonewalling tactics that demolish public trust.  After all, police and prosecutors routinely disclose names of arrested suspects, and in New York City, no stranger to this kind of controversy, it took only two days for police to make public the name of the officer who allegedly killed a black suspect in July by putting him in an illegal chokehold.
The Ferguson police just appear clueless about race relations, for reasons with a familiar historical ring. Thirty years ago, the community was overwhelmingly white. Today, it is two-thirds black, but blacks still hold virtually no political power. The police force's 53-person roster includes just three African Americans. Black residents say they are frequently harassed, and their anger has fueled  unrest -- including looting and demonstrators throwing Molotov cocktails.
There's no excuse for that behavior. The vandals should be prosecuted. But neither does there seem to be any need for authorities to clear the streets with tear gas and rubber bullets, or to muster heavily armed SWAT teams with automatic weapons and armored trucks.
Pictures from Ferguson make the police look more like an occupying force fighting jihadis in Iraq than law enforcement keeping order in their own community. They seem intent on acting with impunity and blocking scrutiny.
Officers roughed up two reporters Wednesday, and video also shows police lobbing a tear gas grenade at a TV news crew. Once the crew fled, police in gas masks began taking down the lights and video camera -- until they realized another crew was taping them. They've managed to cast themselves as a cross between Bull Connor, the iconic racist police chief of the segregation era, and the Keystone Cops.
Adult supervision began arriving Thursday. President Obama and Missouri Gov. Jay Nixon called for calm. They noted the rights of protesters and reporters. Nixon put the Missouri Highway Patrol in charge of security.
Obama said he had asked the Justice Department and the FBI to conduct independent investigations of what happened to Michael Brown. That's reassuring.
Meanwhile, the police would help themselves with more transparency and less militarization. 
