St. Louis has issues.
It shouldn't take a visit by the Rev. Al Sharpton, the civil rights activist, for St. Louis to internalize that very simple statement.
"You've got issues in this city," Rev. Sharpton told a standing-room only crowd Tuesday evening at the Greater St. Mark Missionary Baptist Church near Ferguson.
He wasn't talking about Ferguson, or Dellwood, or Cool Valley, or Florissant, or any of the other 90 municipalities in St. Louis County. 
He was talking about all of us in the greater St. Louis region.
We have issues.
We knew that before Michael Brown's life was cut short Saturday afternoon by a hail of bullets fired from a police officer's gun.
Like too many black men in St. Louis, he died too young. He was 18.
Even without that fatal confrontation, statistics suggest Michael Brown would have died earlier than other African-American males just like him who had the good fortune of being born one ZIP code to the south and west.
This is but one of the startling and important conclusions of a recent Washington University study titled "For the Sake of All."
The landmark study is a picture of what St. Louis has become after decades of white flight, red-lined development decisions, uneven support of public schools and an uneasy racial division that is ever-simmering just below the surface.
Had he lived, Michael Brown's projected lifespan was about 15 years less than had he lived just a couple of ZIP codes away on the south side of Interstate 70.
In St. Louis, ZIP code is destiny.
Before he died, before his community protested, before angry young men turned to violence and looting, Michael Brown's journey defined the biggest issues facing St. Louis today.
He lived in an underfunded and unaccredited school district - Normandy - that is centered amid a jigsaw puzzle of municipalities that struggle to provide basic services to a transient population living in concentrated poverty.
Those municipalities often make the poverty worse, by dinging their own residents with red-light and speeding-camera tickets, which help fund police departments that can't afford to keep and train officers with the quality of the city of St. Louis or St. Louis County police forces.
It's the luck of the draw that #Ferguson is trending on Twitter instead of any of the other patchwork of small cities where Michael Brown spent his youth.
His story is resonating in St. Louis, and in the nation, and the world, because it is the story of so many African-American men.
Michael Brown's story is the story of North County.
His story is the story of St. Louis.
It's our story, past and present.
Yes, we have issues.
Over the past year, we've embarked on a series of editorials under the banner "A Greater St. Louis" focusing specifically on these big issues: the need to improve our local schools; the need to unite as a region, both racially and over our arbitrary government boundaries, and the need to get beyond the very economic development policies that contributed to the concentrated poverty in both north St. Louis city and many parts of north St. Louis County.
The series is a call to action for a once-great Midwestern manufacturing hub making progress, albeit slowly, after decades of decline. It is a plea for city and suburban leaders to realize that for St. Louis to be great again, we must realize that we are better together, that we are stronger as a sum of all of our parts.
There are elements of each of these issues in both the journey of Michael Brown and the community's reaction to his death. One of the key arguments for uniting our region is that for too long, the public policy and perception has been one of isolation. We put up our proverbial (and literal) gates in West County, for example, and separate ourselves from the challenges of the urban core.
Sadly, the looting and violence in Ferguson this week feeds the fear in some mostly white suburbs. Some of them already have registered their official opposition to a movement underway to unite the various factions of St. Louis under a more well-defined regional umbrella.
St. Louis will never be great again if we don't all take responsibility for the least among us, if we don't strengthen our core first, if we don't break down the walls that divide us.
For better or worse, Rev. Sharpton is right: This is now how the world sees St. Louis. Outside of the 314 area code, people don't differentiate between a QuikTrip in Dellwood or one on Big Bend.
Our issues, our divisions, our poverty, our troubled schools, our crime - all are laid bare. There is no more sweeping them under the carpet.
The challenge now, as the Rev. Starsky Wilson - president of the Deaconess Foundation - wrote Wednesday on his blog, is to "collaborate, not compete."
Rev. Wilson noted that there were competing prayer gatherings Tuesday, with Rev. Sharpton speaking to a massive and excitable crowd at one church, while Gov. Jay Nixon and other community leaders (most of them white) were speaking at a more somber gathering just a few miles away.
We have separate but equal prayer services. For St. Louis to move forward, those various constituencies need to be talking to each other, not at each other.
Sixty years after Brown vs. Board of Education said separate but equal wouldn't work for schools, St. Louis is still struggling with the concept.
"The Band-Aid has been ripped off," Baltimore-based Pastor Jamal Bryant said at the Sharpton event on Tuesday.
St. Louis is an open wound.
