ST. LOUIS -- Police in Ferguson, Mo., fired several rounds of tear gas to disperse protesters late Wednesday, on another night of demonstrations over the fatal shooting last weekend of an unarmed black teen by a police officer. 
Clouds of smoke lingered above an area hit with tear gas as the crowd of about 350 protesters scattered.
"I've had enough of being pushed around because of the color of my skin, I'm sick of this police brutality and I'm angry 'cause of what they done to Michael Brown," said one protester, 18, who would identify himself only as Terrell. "I'm going to keep coming back here night after night until we get justice."
The fifth night of protests came after St. Louis County prosecutor Robert McCulloch said that details about the shooting of 18-year-old Michael Brown would not be released anytime soon.
"We are still in the information-gathering part of the investigation," McCulloch said at a news conference.
He urged anyone with information to come forward and promised that every piece of evidence would be reviewed, presented to a grand jury and eventually made public.
"There is no timeline" for that process, he said. "We will do it as expeditiously as possible, but we won't rush through it. ... It's not going to happen in two weeks."
Withholding details from the public during the criminal investigation will help investigators gauge witnesses' credibility, he said.
If the grand jury returns an indictment, the evidence will come out over the course of a trial, he said. If there is no indictment, "absolutely everything will immediately be made public."
Meanwhile, dozens of demonstrators chanted "Hands up! Don't shoot!" as they walked in a permitted daytime march. Some young men at the back of the group raised their middle fingers as they passed a Ferguson Police Department officer, shouting profanities at him.
Brown's family continues to push for authorities to release the name of the officer who shot the student.
Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson said Wednesday that in the aftermath of the Saturday shooting, a rumor circulated misidentifying the officer, prompting death threats. Jackson decided to withhold the name of the officer. The officer was injured in the confrontation with Brown and the "side of his face was swollen," Jackson said.
Early Wednesday morning, a St. Louis County police officer shot and critically wounded a man who police say pointed a handgun at the officer near the site of the Brown shooting. A woman also was shot during the area's sporadic street demonstrations overnight, Jackson said.
The officer-involved shooting, which occurred at 1 a.m., happened near the intersection of West Florissant Avenue and Chambers Road, close to the site of protests against police, said police spokesman Brian Schellman.
