OAKLAND -- Demonstrations over the fatal shooting of an unarmed African-American teenager in a St. Louis suburb are slated to spread to Oakland on Friday, putting police and downtown business owners on high alert. 
In a show of camaraderie with those taking to the streets to protest the recent killing of 18-year-old Michael Brown by a Ferguson, Mo. police officer, anti-police activists in Oakland have called for a march through downtown Oakland Friday night.
The call to action, posted on the Occupy Oakland website, asks supporters to "wear all black" to the protest that is scheduled to begin at 6 p.m. outside City Hall.
"The time has come to draw a line in the sand and say 'no more dead kids,' no more police killings and beatings," the announcement read.
Friday night anti-police marches were a regular occurrence in downtown Oakland two years ago following the eviction of the Occupy Oakland encampments and subsequent battles between police and agitators.
Most of the marches were uneventful, but vandals struck again last July following the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed Florida teenager.
Agitators smashed windows of downtown businesses for three consecutive nights following the verdict. One vandal bashed a waiter in the head with a hammer outside a trendy restaurant.
Police, who were criticized for not being ready to deal with last year's protests, released a statement Thursday that they have increased staffing Friday evening. "The department is prepared to respond in the event that demonstrations and protests become unlawful, threaten public safety, or incite vandalism or property damage," Officer Johnna Watson wrote.
Bar Dogwood, which had its windows smashed last year during the Trayvon Martin protests, will remain open Friday, according to an employee who declined to give his name.
"We don't have any plans to hunker down and fortify," he said.
Brown, a recent high school graduate, was shot multiple times by a Ferguson police officer Saturday afternoon. Authorities have refused to identify the police officer, and police and witness accounts differ.
The killing has set off several days of protests that grew more violent on Wednesday as several demonstrators tossed Molotov cocktails and other objects at riot police.
Councilwoman Lynette Gibson McElhaney said any vandalism or violence stemming from the Oakland protest would take attention away from the serious issue surrounding fatal police shootings of young black men.
"I hope people in Oakland get that and that we don't become the story by destroying property and endangering lives," she said.
Contact Matthew Artz at 510-208-6435.
