FERGUSON, Mo. - The police chief of a St. Louis suburb rocked by racial unrest since a white police officer shot an unarmed black teenager to death said Wednesday he won't be pressured into publicly identifying the officer despite mounting demands from clergy, protesters and even hackers.
Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson, who has been the public face of the city torn by Saturday's death of 18-year-old Michael Brown, told reporters the St. Louis County investigation of the shooting could take weeks to complete. In the meantime, he said, his department welcomes Justice Department training on racial relations in the suburb, where two-thirds of the 21,000 residents are black while all but three of the police force's 53 officers are white. 
NATION
PLANE STOWAWAY GETS JAIL FOR PROBATION VIOLATION: A woman who authorities say flew from San Jose to Los Angeles without a ticket was sentenced to jail Wednesday after admitting she violated her probation by returning to the L.A. airport.
Marilyn Jean Hartman, 62, was sentenced to 177 days in jail for going back to the Los Angeles International Airport last week and wandering through the terminals after a judge ordered her to stay away from the facility, said Frank Mateljan, spokesman for the L.A. city attorney's office.
Hartman previously made repeated attempts to sneak aboard flights at other airports, according to authorities.
DECISION COULD BOOST USE OF POPULAR WEED KILLER: Faced with tougher and more resistant weeds, corn and soybean farmers are anxiously awaiting government decisions on a new version of a popular herbicide - and on genetically modified seeds to grow crops designed to resist it.
Critics say more study is needed on the effects of the herbicide and they are concerned it could endanger public health.
The Environmental Protection Agency is expected to rule this fall on Dow AgroSciences' application to market Enlist, a new version of the 2,4-D herbicide that has been around since the 1940s.
GAY MARRIAGES COULD BEGIN BY NEXT WEEK IN VIRGINIA: Same-sex couples could begin marrying as early as next week in Virginia after a federal appeals court refused Wednesday to delay its ruling that struck down the state's gay marriage ban.
The state would also need to start recognizing gay marriages from out of state next Wednesday, though the U.S. Supreme Court could effectively put same-sex marriages on hold again if opponents of same-sex marriage are able to win an emergency delay.
'STREET VIEW' GOES UNDERSEA TO MAP REEFS: It is easy to go online and get a 360-degree, ground-level view of almost any street in the United States and throughout the world. Soon, scientists hope people will be able to do the same with coral reefs and other underwater wonders.
U.S. government scientists are learning to use specialized fisheye lenses underwater in the Florida Keys this week in hopes of applying "street view" mapping to research and management plans in marine sanctuaries. Some images will be available online this week on Google Maps.
           WORLD         
U.S. CREDITS STRIKES WITH ALLOWING IRAQIS TO ESCAPE: Crediting U.S. airstrikes and humanitarian aid, the Obama administration said Wednesday many trapped Iraqis have fled a mountain where they had sought refuge from militants, making it less likely the military would have to carry out a potentially dangerous rescue mission.
The assessment came after U.S. troops secretly scouted Sinjar Mountain on Wednesday, revealing far fewer people than originally thought - only several thousand.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said six days of U.S. airstrikes against militant targets in the region gave many people an opportunity to get off the mountain. He also said the food and water supplies the U.S. airdropped to the refugees helped to sustain them.
BRAZIL: PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE DIES IN PLANE CRASH:  Presidential candidate Eduardo Campos died Wednesday when the small plane that was carrying him and several campaign officials plunged into a residential neighborhood in the Brazilian port city of Santos.
All seven people aboard the plane, including a campaign photographer and cameraman, a press adviser and two pilots, died in the crash.
FROM WIRE REPORTS
