 Generation Progress has issued the following news release:
POTUS, Senators Respond To Situation In Ferguson. The shooting of 18-year-old Michael Brown has sparked outrage in his Missouri hometown, across the nation, and worldwide. In the wake of contention between local law enforcement and protesters, President Obama said "now is the time of healing, now is the time for peace on the streets of Ferguson," at a press conference in Martha's Vineyard. According to the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Senator Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) received a standing ovation when "she told the crowd the county should 'demilitarize the police response' in Ferguson." Senator Rand Paul (R-Ky.) also called for the demilitarization of the police force in an op-ed for Time. In it, Senator Paul wrote that "there is a systemic problem with today's law enforcement." [NPR] 
ASU Football Player Makes Division I History. Edward "Chip" Sarafin, an offensive lineman at Arizona State University, is the first publicly gay athlete in a top college football league. Sarafin came out in an interview with Phoenix magazine Compete, but he personally came out to his teammates last year. In a statement, ASU coach Todd Graham said "diversity and acceptance are two of the pillars of our program, and he has full support from his teammates and the coaching staff." [Mother Jones]
All We Do Is Eat, Eat, Eat No Matter What. If you didn't Instagram your meal, did you really eat it? A study by Piper Jaffray found that young people spend more money on food than any other commodity, and nothing captures our carefully crafted eating habits like Instagram. What's the best meal to photograph according to Millennials? Brunch. Cornell University student Mike Loffredo told USA Today College, "People Instagram and share photos of creative dishes. They want others to see something that goes beyond ordinary brunch," adding, "I think it might incentivize the food services industry to think outside the box. [USA Today College]
For further information please visit: http://www.genprogress.org
