In a surprise meeting with black lawyers and civil activists Tuesday, Gov. Rick Scott said the shooting of an unarmed 17-year-old by a neighborhood watch volunteer raised concerns about the state's "stand your ground" law that critics say lets some get away with murder.
Scott unexpectedly joined the group of 50 protesters in the lobby of his office Tuesday, saying lawmakers should perhaps revisit the first-in-the-nation law after the investigation into last month's shooting death of TrayvonMartin, the subject of national outrage and a potential racial powder keg, is complete. 
"If there's something wrong with the law that's in place, I think it's important we address it. I'm going to look at it. If what's happening is it's being abused, that's not right. We all want to live in a safe place," Scott said.
The impromptu meeting came alongside demands from Democratic lawmakers to clarify the law, passed in 2005, which allows individuals to use deadly force when they feel threatened.
George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer in a gated community in Sanford, who is white, says he acted in self-defense during a Feb. 26 confrontation when he shot Martin, who is black. Local officials have not charged him with any crime, sparking a national outcry from black leaders and civil rights activists who accuse Orlando-area prosecutors and police officials of racism.
Seminole County State Attorney Norm Wolfinger announced Tuesday a grand jury will investigate the shooting next month. Late Monday night, Scott ordered the Florida Department of Law Enforcement to cooperate with the Sanford Police Department inquiry. The U.S. Department of Justice also is investigating.
Celebrities including Cher, Mia Farrow, Wyclef Jean and Spike Lee have joined in the protests over Martin's shooting and are participating in an online petition drive demanding that Wolfinger charge Zimmerman with murder. Nearly 500,000 had signed onto the petition drive as of Tuesday afternoon.
Al Sharpton plans to meet with community leaders in Sanford on Thursday.
Martin's killing cast an unwelcome spotlight on Florida's "Castle Doctrine" law, promoted by the National Rifle Association and which became a model for other states.
Sen. Chris Smith, a lawyer, said he plans to file legislation to close what he called a gray area in the law. "The language is vague, so what we want to do is point out that you cannot initiate contact," said Smith, D-Fort Lauderdale, who voted against the bill while in the Florida House in 2005.
Smith said justifiable homicide has increased threefold since the "stand your ground" law went into effect seven years ago, with many of the victims black. "What it's done is, it has emboldened those who are sometimes looking for confrontation because they realize they have the shield of this law. This is a classic case of, if it's my word against yours and you happen to be dead, there's no way of knowing," he said.
Sen. Oscar Braynon, D-Miami Gardens, on Tuesday asked Senate President Mike Haridopolos, R-Merritt Island, to hold legislative hearings about how the law has been used by law enforcement, prosecutors, public defenders and defense lawyers. Martin's mother lives in Braynon's senate district.
"This law was never intended to be a blanket of protection for neighborhood vigilantes who think that they can bypass law enforcement instructions and shoot anyone they see fit," said Braynon, a lawyer.
The Martin shooting is the latest in a string of controversial cases in which shooters have invoked the law in their defense, including at least six Palm Beach County cases in which killers were not punished.
"These problems are racial profiling, the abuse of police discretion and the abuse of prosecutorial discretion. TrayvonMartin is dead because of racial profiling," attorney Mutaquee Akbar told Scott, reading from a prepared letter. "George Zimmerman is walking free today because of this abuse."
Scott replied: "I'll do everything I can to make sure justice prevails."
One of the sponsors of the 2005 measure defended the law, citing reports that Zimmerman ignored the advice of a 911 operator who told Zimmerman to stay away from Martin.
"Invariably when there's any adverse incident, it's open season for anti-gun factions to disseminate this idea that there's something wrong with 'stand your ground,' " said Rep. Dennis Baxley, R-Ocala, who sponsored the measure. "There's nothing in 'stand your ground' that authorizes anyone to pursue and confront an individual. That's the problem in this case. ... Let them do a bill about that."
The racial tension surrounding the Sanford shooting should not take away from the positive results the law has had by allowing potential victims to protect themselves, Baxley said. "It has stopped a lot of victimization from occurring. And that's what I get thanked for every week almost from someone. I think it defends those people. It defends everyone. If they're under violent attack they have the authority to stop that," he said.
NRA lobbyist Marion Hammer, who pushed for the law, agreed. She said the call for action is premature because the law allows an arrest to take place after an investigation.
"So for law enforcement to rush to judgment, just because they are being stampeded by emotionalism, would be a violation of law," she said. "This law is not about one incident. It's about protecting the right of law-abiding people to protect themselves when they are attacked."
~dara_kam@pbpost.com
