Joe Henderson
jhenderson@tampatrib.com
State Rep. Dennis Baxley believes he did a good thing when he sponsored the legislation that eventually became Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law. He says he is proud of his work and he'd do it again.
He believes that, even though the law was used by neighborhood watch captain George Zimmerman as justification for shooting 17-year-old Trayvon Martin to death in Sanford. 
Martin was armed with a bag of Skittles and a cup of iced tea and apparently only was guilty of walking where Zimmerman could see him. Zimmerman was told in a 911 call to leave Martin be, but he didn't. Police bought Zimmerman's story that he felt threatened and decided not to arrest him, sparking widespread protests and a call from Gov. Rick Scott to review the law.
Simply put, the law allows people to be immune from prosecution or civil action if they act in self-defense. People are not required to retreat in the face of danger.
Baxley stands his ground, so to speak.
"This is about the application of that law," Baxley said. "The first thing I thought of when news came out about this is that there's nothing in the statute that authorizes pursue and confront. That's a disqualifying factor.
"When a law-abiding citizen is confronted with attack, he should be able to defend himself. But (Zimmerman) was told by police he shouldn't pursue. Once he did that, he was on thin ice as far as this statute is concerned."
The case has been referred to a grand jury, and the Sanford police chief has temporarily stepped aside. State and federal investigators are asking their own questions amid increasing calls for swift action.
It may not be that easy. Despite the outrage, the law offers Zimmerman several protections. Even though the 911 tape suggests he pursued Martin when the cops told him to stay away, he can claim he thought Martin was armed. There were reports that Zimmerman was bleeding from a head wound.
Of course, as Baxley observed, "Why is someone who is supposed to be out there watching and reporting carrying a firearm?"
Because he can?
While that plays out, consider these other ways "Stand Your Ground" has been used to justify using lethal force in defense. Earlier this week, a Miami judge dismissed a second-degree murder charge against a man who chased another for more than a block before stabbing him to death.
And next month, a hearing is scheduled in Tampa over Trevor Dooley's claim that he was defending himself when he shot and killed David James on a basketball court in a Valrico park. According to testimony, Dooley tried to shoo a skateboarder away when James got involved.
Dooley went to his garage and came back with something sticking out of his waistband. Witnesses said there was an argument, James tried to walk away, and Dooley pursued and pulled out a gun. There was a brief scuffle as James tried to get the gun away from Dooley.
James was shot through the heart and died at the scene.
"You have to look at the big picture," Baxley said. "We can sit for hours and armchair-quarterback this, but when a victim is under attack he only has seconds to think. They have to know we're going to be with them, that they can protect their lives and their families. It's frustrating to me when I see the anti-gun lobby use this to attack the law.
"People hurt people. There are murders in prison, where there are no guns."
Still, it's legitimate to ask Baxley about how people's interpretation of the law may differ from its intent. It's impossible to crawl inside people'sheads to see if they truly felt threatened. If a person is coming through your window in the middle of the night or has his hands around your throat, that's one thing. But what if someone is just paranoid and has an itchy trigger finger? Should the law protect that?
"We have to err on the side of supporting people's right to defend themselves," Baxley said. "I am really quite comfortable with this statute. I think we've actually saved a lot of lives."
I asked Baxley if it would be worth looking at the law's language, to cover situations like the Sanford case. He said no, pointing out that about half the states have laws similar to the one in Florida.
"Are we open to legislative solutions? Of course we are," he said. "But the law is carefully worded and it passed overwhelmingly in the Legislature. I hesitate to open this statute. A lot of work went into this. It was well-vetted and discussed."
That may be true, but that debate was held in the somewhat civil chambers of public policy in Tallahassee. Like it or not, there are some people who see danger in the eyes of every stranger, or think bullets are the best way to settle an argument.
They seem to think they have the law on their side. Maybe they do.
Copyright  2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com
