March 25--The fatal shooting of unarmed black teenager TrayvonMartin by a Florida block watch volunteer has captured the nation's attention.
The shooter, George Zimmerman, has not been charged.
One reason people are riveted to the story is that many people recognize that it could have happened anywhere.
But if it had happened in Connecticut, Zimmerman, 28 -- who told police he acted in self-defense as Martin, 17, walked through his suburban Orlando condominium complex wearing a hoodie -- would likely have been arrested, state officials say. 
That's because Connecticut law differs from Florida law in a fundamental way, said Michael Lawlor, a former East Haven state legislator who is now Gov. Dannel P. Malloy's undersecretary for criminal justice policy and planning.
Under Connecticut law, when you're outside your own home or place of business, you can only use deadly force "if you reasonably believe that you or someone else are in ... danger of death" or serious injury, said Lawlor.
"Before using deadly force, you have a duty to retreat if you can do so with complete safety," said Lawlor, a lawyer and former state prosecutor who taught criminal justice at the University of New Haven.
That means that "if someone is coming at you and you have a gun, you can't stand your ground and wait for them to come to you," he said. "You have to retreat."
Those restrictions don't apply if you're inside your home or place of business, or if you're a police officer, Lawlor said.
Florida is among 21 states with a "Stand Your Ground" law, which gives people wide latitude to use deadly force rather than retreat during a fight. The Florida law lets police officers on the scene decide whether they believe the self-defense claim. In many cases, the officer's defer to making the arrest, letting the courts work out whether the deadly force was justified.
In this case, police have said they are confident they did the right thing by not charging 28-year-old Zimmerman, a white Hispanic.
Zimmerman told police he was attacked by Martin after he had given up chasing the boy and he was returning to his truck. He had a bloody nose and blood on the back of his head, according to police. Martin's family questions Zimmerman's story, and believes if their races were reversed, there is no doubt a black shooter would be jailed, even if he claimed self-defense.
"They are making it look like Zimmerman is the victim and their son is in the grave," said Benjamin Crump, attorney for Martin's parents. "It's about equal justice."
Under the National Rifle Association-backed Florida law passed in 2005, Florida, unlike most other states, grants immunity from prosecution or arrest to suspects who successfully invoke the "stand your ground" claim. And if a suspect is arrested and charged, a judge can throw out the case well before trial based on a self-defense claim.
"Here, it's a little different," said state Rep. Stephen D. Dargan, D-West Haven, longtime House chairman of the General Assembly's Public Safety Committee. In Connecticut, "you might need to justify the use of deadly force," Dargan said. "It's not like the wild, wild West here. ... The law enforcement and probably the court system might look at it a little differently."
If Zimmerman or someone like him did a similar thing here, "he would definitely be in deep trouble," said state Sen. Tony Guglielmo, R-Stafford, the ranking senate member of the Public Safety Committee.
In this state, "you basically can't do anything outside your own home, and my understanding is, you can't use excessive force," Guglielmo said.
"Unless there's something more to the story, it seems incredible that he would shoot someone," he said of Zimmerman.
Zimmerman's attorney, Craig Sonner, said Saturday that his client has been unfairly portrayed as a racist. He said he's spoken with several of Zimmerman's friends, including some who are black, and "they only have good things to say about him," Sonner said.
"Is George a racist? The answer is no, absolutely not," Sonner said. "The incident that transpired is not racially motivated or a hate crime in any way. It was self-defense."
Sonner said that if charges are brought against his client, Zimmerman would be willing to turn himself in to police. "We will follow the law," Sonner said. "I believe what the evidence will show is that this case does fall under (the stand your ground law)," Sonner said. "I believe we have a good case."
Sonner would not say where Zimmerman was, following multiple death threats.
After simmering for weeks, the story has sizzled in recent days -- with President Obama jumping into the fray Friday, urging Americans to "do some soul searching" and declaring, 'If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon."
"I can only imagine what these parents are going through, and when I think about this boy, I think about my own kids,'' Obama said at the White House.
Obama said the parents of Martin have a right to expect ''that we're going to get to the bottom of exactly what happened.''
Martin's parents, Tracy Martin and Sybrina Fulton, thanked Obama for his support, saying in a statement that the president's words ''touched us deeply and made us wonder: If his son looked like Trayvon and wore a hoodie, would he be suspicious, too?''
The case resonates with many black Americans, a key voting group during Obama's 2008 election, who see it as an example of bias toward blacks. Civil rights groups have held rallies in Florida and New York, and in Washington, D.C., and Chicago Saturday.
Of Sanford's 53,000 residents, 57 percent are white and 30 percent are black.
Amid the public outcry, the Sanford police chief and state's attorney in the case have both stepped aside.
The Associated Press contributed to this story. Call Mark Zaretsky at 203-789-5722. Follow us on Twitter @nhregister or @markzar. To receive breaking news first, text the word NHNEWS to 22700. (ASTERISK)Msg+data rates may apply. Text HELP for help. Text STOP to cancel.
___ (c)2012 the New Haven Register (New Haven, Conn.) Visit the New Haven Register (New Haven, Conn.) at www.nhregister.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
