Dozens of men and women gathered outside Oakland City Hall on Monday to add their voices to those across the nation demanding the arrest and prosecution of the man who shot black Florida teenager Trayvon Martin one month ago.
Many of those who rallied wore "hoodies" similar to the sweatshirt that the 17-year-old Martin was wearing when George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, shot and killed him after a confrontation.
Zimmerman, 28, said he acted in self-defense. 
But Martin's family say the unarmed teenager was a victim of profiling, prompting a national outcry and debate on race that has stretched from the White House to Frank H. Ogawa Plaza and elsewhere in the Bay Area.
"His life was robbed because of suspicion and perception," Charley Hames, pastor of BeeBe Memorial Cathedral in Oakland, said at the Oakland rally.
Along with wearing hoodies, some protesters brought Skittles candy and cans of iced tea. Martin was carrying the same items when he was shot as he headed back from a convenience store.
"It reminds me of Emmett Till," said Sharlana Turner, 25, of Berkeley, referring to the African-American boy who was murdered in Mississippi in August 1955. "It's a continuing cycle of no justice."
Zimmerman was heading to a grocery store in Sanford, Fla., on Feb. 26 when he spotted Martin and called police to report him as suspicious. Zimmerman stepped out of his SUV to follow Martin, despite a police dispatcher discouraging him, according to published reports.
Zimmerman told police that he briefly lost sight of Martin and was returning to his vehicle when the teenager confronted and attacked him.
Kareem Marshall, 25, of Berkeley, said the murder of his mother, Pearla Ann Louis, in May 2010 made him empathize with the Martin family.
"It's the same pain," Marshall said. "They have lost someone to violence."
Zimmerman, whose father is white and mother is Hispanic, was not arrested after the shooting because of Florida's personal protection laws. Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law allows people to use deadly force in self-defense, which is why authorities have so far not charged Zimmerman. Similar laws are in effect in at least 23 states.
State and federal authorities are still investigating the case, however.
"This young teenager was gunned down because of how he looked, because of the color of his skin," Rep. Barbara Lee, D-Oakland, said Monday. "We need to see justice in this case immediately."
The Congressional Black Caucus will lead briefings on Capitol Hill this week on hate crimes and racial profiling, Lee said.
"While this issue has shocked American culture, it hasn't shocked me," Lee said. "The combination of the powerful gun lobby, racial profiling and hate crimes make this local matter one of national attention. Sanford could be anywhere."
The Oakland protest was just one of many that have taken place throughout the country since Martin's death. It is believed to have been the first in the East Bay, though several people also demonstrated Monday outside the San Francisco Hall of Justice.
Mesha Monge-Irizarry, whose son Idriss Stelley was fatally shot by San Francisco police in 2001, said, "We're tired of saying 'no more stolen lives,' adding, "Now it's time for action."
Protests also took place over the weekend in Chicago; Washington, D.C.; and Columbia, S.C.
Bay City News Service contributed to this report. nullOnline extraScan this code on your smart-phone to view a photo gallery of rallies from around the country or view it athttp://photos.mercurynews.com .
