Buffalo community activists Randy Sargent and Tyrone Ferguson said they will see if they need permits from City Hall to keep their new "Voice of Homicide" group's protest going in Niagara Square over the killing of an unarmed 17-year-old in Sanford, Fla., last month. 
Several dozen members of Occupy Buffalo on Wednesday night joined about a dozen people who came out to support Sargent and Ferguson and their efforts to seek justice for the killing of TrayvonMartin, a black teenager who was shot to death Feb. 26 by George Zimmerman, a Neighborhood Watch volunteer in a gated community in Sanford.
The Occupy Buffalo group also returned to Niagara Square for a general meeting.
Sargent said he expects to lead a protest march around the square beginning at about 6 a.m. today. He will be joined by Ferguson when he completes other scheduled business.
Sargent and Ferguson said they plan to continue a peaceful protest in the square for the slain Martin "until there is justice" in the case, Ferguson said.
The two said they plan to protest from about 6 a.m. to midnight seven days a week until law enforcement takes action against Zimmerman.
Trayvon was visiting his father in a townhouse in a Sanford gated community and had gone to a nearby convenience store for snacks in the light rain.
Zimmerman, captain of the community's Neighborhood Watch, called police and said he was following a "suspicious" person. By the time police arrived, they found Zimmerman with a bloody nose and Trayvon facedown in the grass, shot in the chest.
Zimmerman claimed he shot the youth in self-defense. He has not been charged with any criminal activity, but a grand jury is reportedly about to begin reviewing the fatal shooting of the unarmed teen.
Wednesday evening in Niagara Square, Chris Barbara, a member of the Occupy Buffalo movement, said his organization was joining in the protest being staged by Sargent and Ferguson "because Occupy Buffalo supports all nonviolent efforts."
Sargent and Ferguson said they hope their efforts will prompt similar protests nationwide.
email: mgryta@buffnews.com
