OBAMA SAYS DEATH OF FLA. TEEN A 'TRAGEDY'
WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama today called the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager in a Florida suburb a "tragedy" and said that "every aspect" of the case that has rallied civil rights activists should be investigated. 
Speaking in personal terms, Mr. Obama expressed sympathy for the parents of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, who was shot on Feb. 26 in Sanford, Fla., a suburb of Orlando, by a neighborhood watch volunteer who said he was acting in self-defense.
"If I had a son he'd look like Trayvon. I think they are right to expect that all of us as Americans take this with the seriousness that it deserves and we're going to get to the bottom of what happened," Mr. Obama said.
The Justice Department and FBI have opened a civil rights investigation and a grand jury is considering whether to charge George Zimmerman, who acknowledged shooting the teen but said it was self-defense.
WORLD BANK HEAD NOMINATED
WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama today nominated Dartmouth College president and global health expert Jim Yong Kim to lead the World Bank, an unconventional pick that could help to quell criticism in the developing world of the U.S. stranglehold on the international organization's top post.
Mr. Obama said Mr. Kim, a Korean-born physician and pioneer in the treatment of HIV, AIDS and tuberculosis, has the breadth of experience on development issues needed to carry out the financial institution's anti-poverty mission.
"It's time for a development professional to lead the world's largest development agency," Mr. Obama said.
NEW-HOME SALES FALL
WASHINGTON -- Sales of U.S. new homes fell in February for the second straight month, a reminder that the depressed housing market remains weak despite some improvement.
The Commerce Department said today that new-home sales dropped 1.6 percent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 313,000 homes. Sales have fallen nearly 7 percent since December.
While a mild winter and three months of strong job growth have lifted re-sales, those conditions haven't benefited the new-home market.
FACEBOOK WARNS EMPLOYERS ABOUT PASSWORDS
NEW YORK -- Facebook is warning employers not to demand the passwords of job applicants, saying that it's an invasion of privacy that opens companies to legal liabilities.
The social networking company is also threatening legal action.
An Associated Press story this week documented cases of job applicants who are being asked, at the interview table, to reveal their Facebook passwords so their prospective employers can check their backgrounds.
In a post today, Facebook's chief privacy officer cautions that if an employer discovers that a job applicant is a member of a protected group, the employer may open itself up to claims of discrimination if it doesn't hire that person.
