THE PARENTS OF the unarmed black Florida teenager slain three weeks ago by a neighborhood watchman joined a "million hoodie" march in Union Square Wednesday demanding the shooter's arrest. 
"Our son is your son," TrayvonMartin's mom Sybrina Fulton told a big crowd.
"This is not a black and white thing. This is a right and wrong thing."
The demonstrators burst into a chant of "Justice for Trayvon!"
As national anger over the shooting grows, MSNBC host and civil-rights activist the Rev. Al Sharpton planned a rally Thursday in Sanford, Fla., the Orlando suburb where the 17-year-old was killed Feb. 26 by 28-year-old George Zimmerman.
Martin's parents were in New York for a blizzard of TV appearances campaigning for Zimmerman's arrest and the resignation of the Sanford police chief.
Facing a rising tide of criticism, Sanford city commissioners voted, 3 to 2, on Wednesday that they had no confidence in Police Chief Bill Lee.
Also Wednesday, the Sanford city manager put out a letter saying the cops could not arrest Zimmerman because of Florida's controversial 2005 Stand Your Ground law, which allows people to shoot anyone they believe is threatening them.
"Law enforcement was PROHIBITED from making an arrest," City Manager Norton Bonaparte wrote.
The Republican lawmakers who wrote the Stand Your Ground law disputed that, saying Zimmerman went looking for a confrontation and should therefore be arrested.
"He has no protection under my law," former state Sen. Durell Peaden told the Miami Herald.
Trayvon, who was staying at his dad's house in the gated community, went to 7-Eleven to buy Skittles and iced tea wearing a hoodie on the drizzly night.
Zimmerman, whose family says he is Hispanic, spotted Trayvon and called 911 - one of dozens of calls over the years about suspicious black males.
"This guy looks like he's up to no good. . . . These a**holes always get away," Zimmerman told the police dispatcher before following the teenager
- even though he was told to stay put.
When cops arrived, Trayvon was dead, shot in the chest by Zimmerman, who had a bloody nose and claimed the teenager jumped him.
Police Chief Lee insisted there was no probable cause to arrest Zimmerman, either at the scene or after it emerged that calls to 911 from worried neighbors captured the teen's desperate cries for help and a single gunshot.
hkennedy@nydailynews.com
