March 25--The images are so stark, all those people wearing hoodies in pictures for TrayvonMartin. Former Gov. Jennifer Granholm. The Miami Heat. Random friends and neighbors.
They're all trying to bring badly needed attention to a face-slapping injustice: A white man kills an innocent black teen he unnecessarily feared in an Orlando suburb, and police and prosecutors won't even take the shooter into custody, much less charge him.
I get it. I'm angry, too. And scared for kids like my son, who'll be a teenager soon enough -- and seen as a threat by some people. 
But I'm also wondering: What have we done for Delric? Or Kade'jah? Or Je'Rean?
They were black kids, too. They were innocent. And they were killed for stupid, stupid reasons right here in Detroit.
Is it because their killings had nothing to do with racism that their deaths didn't evoke such passion or spark nationwide social media campaigns?
Does combatting racial stereotypes -- which is about fighting one of the black community's external foes -- command an easier mental and emotional response than confronting the demons that exist between and among African Americans?
Let me be clear here: I'm not trying to let anyone off the hook in Sanford, Fla.
It's outrageous that George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, got out of his vehicle when he saw Trayvon walking through his gated Sanford community, confronted the teen and then shot him after a scuffle. That's not any kind of neighborhood watch I've ever heard of -- it's barbarous vigilantism.
But every day in this country, a black teen or child gets gunned down in encounters that are at least as perplexing. It has become so common, it's nauseating. And far more typically, the perpetrators are other African Americans.
Delric Miller IV was a 9-month-old, sleeping on the couch in a home on Detroit's west side, when someone fired 37 rounds from an automatic weapon through the windows and walls, killing him instantly. His grandmother said she believes the attack was retaliation for a fight over chairs at a baby shower.
Twelve-year-old Kade'jah Davis was killed when someone fired shots through the front door of her home, supposedly by a man who had argued with her mother over a cell phone.
And Je'Rean Blake was a 17-year-old standing on a corner on the city's east side, talking to a girl, when a man on a moped took exception to the look on his face. The man returned to the corner with a gun and shot twice into a crowd where Je'Rean was standing, killing him.
These deaths were beyond senseless. And they happen all the time -- in Detroit and in other communities, big and small.
They don't raise the same kinds of questions as Trayvon's killing, questions about how virulent racial stereotypes still are in some quarters, or about how easily authorities brush off cold-blooded murder when a black kid is the victim.
But I think they raise far more serious questions about how we, as African Americans, deal with one another, how we value life and manage disputes, and how far we've allowed our communities to sink into moral chaos.
We've got everyone donning a hoodie to bring justice to Trayvon's case.
But for the most part, when it's just another black kid killed by other black people, the emotions aren't nearly as raw.
There are, of course, bold exceptions. My friend Raphael Johnson, who heads the Detroit 300 neighborhood anti-crime group (which some worry is veering into vigilantism, too) works tirelessly to bring attention to the routine debasing of life in poor, black areas. So do lots of other people.
But they work in relative obscurity compared to the attention being garnered by TrayvonMartin's death. It seems they can't get Americans of any hue as exercised about what they see every day.
TrayvonMartin's family deserves justice, and that justice will mean something huge for a nation that still can't get race relations right.
But when that's done, it's worth asking when the far more common killings of black children will generate as much outrage and deserve as much attention.
Stephen Henderson is editorial page editor of the Free Press and the host of "American Black Journal," which airs at 1 p.m. Sundays on Detroit Public Television. Follow Henderson @ShendersonFreep on Twitter. Contact him at shenderson600@freepress.com or 313-222-6659.
___ (c)2012 the Detroit Free Press Visit the Detroit Free Press at www.freep.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
