THE CAPITAL-JOURNAL
Pastor T.D. Hicks stood in front of his congregation Sunday morning wearing white sneakers, jeans and a black hooded sweatshirt. 
From his pulpit at Antioch Baptist Church, Hicks smiled. 
"Today it does my heart good to see you in your hoodies," Hicks announced. 
Sunday's service wasn't a casual church service but part of a solidarity movement suggested by their minister to support TrayvonMartin's family, more than half of the people at the church's two services had people wearing hoodies.  
TrayvonMartin, a 17-year-old Florida high school student, was killed in Sanford, Fla., a community north of Orlando, on Feb. 26 while wearing a hooded sweatshirt. Former Topeka city manager Norton Bonaparte is the city manager in Sanford. 
Locally, hoodies came into the spotlight when Topeka Police Chief Ron Miller in February suggested crime could be deterred by making people remove their hoods before entering a business. Topeka Mayor Bill Bunten said he wanted discussion on the idea.
Around the country there have been groups protesting the death of Martin by wearing hooded sweatshirts. 
Hicks said he hoped that wearing the sweatshirts would bring more awareness to the incident that happened in Sanford. 
"This is not a black or a white issue - this is an issue of injustice," Hicks said. "It is up to us as the body of Christ as believers and humans to say that one needs to take stand up for a wrong." 
Washburn student Phillip Watson, 21, felt that church was the right place to wear his blue hooded sweatshirt. 
"Church is a place of healing and a place of outreach," Watson said. "With something like this going on in this country, we should be active no matter where it is happening. I know some people here that went out and bought hoodies because they wanted to wear one today because it is that important."
Watson acknowledged that the clothes don't make the person, remembering when he was in high school and they banned do rags at Topeka West.
"When you take something like that, you blow it up and make it taboo and perpetuate those stereotypes," Watson said. "We don't need to perpetuate those stereotypes. It has nothing to do with who we are on the inside, and we don't need to judge people on what they are wearing."
Lesia Carter, 53, agreed while wearing her gray hooded sweatshirt.
"The fact that we are using the symbol of the hoodie doesn't have anything to do with clothes at all," Carter said. "It brings attention to injustices. We need to see there are still things going on that we need to pay attention to and possibly change." 
Today wasn't the first time that Carter has worn a sweatshirt to church. 
"We have a come-as-you-are policy," Carter said. "God doesn't look at what you are wearing, he looks at your heart. 
"The fact that we came together in unity to say something even though we are not anywhere close to where this tragedy happened," Carter said. "What matters is that the world is coming together to say something needs to be done."
Carter hopes that more light will shine on the issue locally and nationally.
"If we are talking about banning things, then we need to stop and see why people are wearing this and why they are taking a stance," Carter said. "You have to listen, and then listening requires change. If you are going to listen, then that means that you are willing to do something about what I suggested."
Hicks told his congregation that all around the country pastors were asking their members to come together and pray for the family of Martin but he had a few amendments on that prayer.
They should also pray for Sanford city manager Norton Bonaparte, and the family of George Zimmerman, because all of their lives changed in an instant. 
"One thing I know is that my neighbor is hurting and because my neighbor is hurting I should be hurting too," Hicks said. "That's why we are here and praying."
Hicks said in between church services that he thought that wearing hoodies at church was a good idea.
"One of the best things I saw today was one of our senior members had her hoodie on today in support and solidarity of what the church was doing," Hicks said. "Often times support isn't voiced - sometimes you can just see it visibly."
