2 dead, 2 injured
in Chicago fire
CHICAGO - A fire at a vacant building on Chicago's Northwest Side has left two people dead and two firefighters injured.
Chicago Fire Department spokesman Chief Kevin MacGregor said the blaze was reported at about 8:15 p.m. Friday.
Authorities said it appears that the fire started on the second floor of the 2-story building, where the bodies of two adults were found. 
Their names haven't been released.
Two firefighters also suffered non-life-threatening injuries to their legs and were transported to an area hospital. MacGregor said about 90 people, including firefighters and paramedics, responded to the scene.
Man charged in alleged torture case
BELLEVILLE - A southern Illinois man faces felony aggravated battery charges after allegedly forcing his 12-year-old stepson to do 1,000 pushups over two days and to swallow two screws at their Scott Air Force Base home.
James P. Jennings is being held in lieu of $400,000 bond in the St. Clair County Jail. He has been charged with one count of felony aggravated battery, two counts of domestic battery, and four counts of endangering the life of a child.
It wasn't immediately clear whether he has an attorney.
St. Clair County Sheriff's Capt. Steve Johnson said Friday the boy has been placed in a foster home. He was treated and released from a hospital but will require future medical treatment because of the screws that remain in his stomach.
Boy, 14, electrocuted at train station
CHICAGO - A 14-year-old boy was electrocuted at a Chicago train station after he accidentally touched the electrified third rail.
Authorities said Rahmon Harris was "goofing around" with friends at the Blue Line station on the city's West side Friday when he tried to retrieve something that had fallen onto the tracks.
Police said he slipped and made contact with the third rail. He was dead at the scene.
Woman killed in tornado identified
OPDYKE - Authorities have released the name of a woman found dead under the remains of her southern Illinois home after it was destroyed by a tornado.
Jefferson County Sheriff Roger Mulch said 60-year-old Pat Zedalis Brown was found lying under her home Friday and was pronounced dead.
Brown lived near Opdyke, a tiny community east of Mount Vernon about 90 miles from St. Louis.
Mulch said two other people were injured and treated at the scene. Five outbuildings received moderate to severe damage.
Legislator defies
calls to step down
CHICAGO - The old saying goes that in Chicago, even the dead vote. As the recent primary proves, even the arrested get elected.
One week after facing a federal bribery charge, state Rep. Derrick Smith won the Democratic primary by a landslide.
Now, Democratic leaders want him to resign amid a House investigation.
Hundreds protest TrayvonMartin killing
CHICAGO - Several hundred people held a rally in downtown Chicago to protest last month's killing of an unarmed black teenager by a neighborhood watchman in Florida.
Saturday's gathering at downtown's Daley Plaza is one of several rallies taking place around the country over the weekend.
Seventeen-year-old TrayvonMartin was killed in the town of Sanford on Feb. 26. The shooting has set off a nationwide furor over race and justice.
His killing triggered emotions for some of the Chicago protesters who have been touched by the shootings, gang violence and run-ins with police that beset parts of their city.
Neighborhood crime-watch captain George Zimmerman, whose father is white and mother is Hispanic, claimed self-defense.
The Associated Press
