March 26--NEW YORK -- New details in the TrayvonMartin case indicate that the teen fought with George Zimmerman before the neighborhood watch captain shot and killed Martin. It may add credence to Zimmerman's claim that he was acting in self defense, while other new information sheds light on why Martin, who was supposed to be in school in South Florida, was instead 200 miles away from home when he was fatally shot.
"They killed my son and now they're trying to kill his reputation," Sybrina Foster, Trayvon's mother, said in a midday news conference in Sanford, Florida. "Even in death," Trayvon's father Tracy Martin added, "They're still disrespecting my son." 
Both parents were responding to the new details leaking out -- possibly from local police -- about the situation in which TrayvonMartin, 17, was killed. When Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch captain, shot Martin exactly a month ago, Trayvon had been suspended from his school in South Florida, and was visiting his father's fiancee's townhome in Sanford, in Central Florida.
The ten-day suspension from Dr. Michael M. Krop Secondary School in North Miami was imposed after a baggie with marijuana residue on it was found in TrayvonMartin's backpack. The Miami-Dade School District has said, through a spokesperson that Martin's violation at his high school did not involve any violence. Miami-Dade County authorities also confirmed that Martin did not have a juvenile criminal record, after various news outlets requested the information.
After his shooting death, a toxicology test was done on TrayvonMartin's body, the results of which are pending.
"Let's ask why there was testing on the victim, and not on the man who was the aggressor," Rev. Al Sharpton said at the news conference in reference to the fact that Sanford Police seized no evidence from George Zimmerman after he said he had to shoot Trayvon in self defense.
That lack of confiscation was in spite of the fact that newly available details Zimmerman and from witnesses, obtained by PIX11 news partner The Orlando Sentinel, show that Martin may have punched Zimmerman in the nose and bashed Zimmerman's head on the pavement multiple times. The alleged beatdown happened after Zimmerman, who'd determined the hoodie-wearing teen was suspicious, followed TrayvonMartin, against the recommendation of police, and Martin questioned Zimmerman about why he was trailing him.
Also new: nearly three-quarters of all Americans -- 73 percent, believe George Zimmerman should be arrested, according to a new CNN/ORC International poll. It also found that 67 percent of whites feel that the 28 year-old who was let go by cops should be under arrest, and 83 percent of non-whites feel that way.
Meanwhile, an African-American friend of Zimmerman, Joe Oliver, has been speaking widely in defense of Zimmerman. "This was not a racial incident," Oliver said in an interview with CNN. "It was an incident where someone was trying to do the right thing and ended up in a very bad position."
Oliver even took his message to Rev. Jesse Jackson, who is in Florida to support TrayvonMartin's Family. That family received a very public message on Monday from the special prosecutor in TrayvonMartin's case.
"Trayvon's parents deserve answers," Angela Corey said in an interview. "And we're going to do our best to give them those answers in a timely fashion." Corey also said over the past weekend that this case is difficult, and it may be a challenge to get a conviction.
___ (c)2012 WPIX-TV (New York) Visit WPIX-TV (New York) at www.wpix.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
