OAKLAND -- If you've followed the story of TrayvonMartin and the outrage over his killing, you will want to join us for a panel discussion Tuesday, 6 to 8 p.m., at Nile Hall, 668 13th St., inside Preservation Park in Oakland. 
The conversation will focus on the particulars of the Martin case and how images of men and boys of color in the media and popular culture impact perception.
The forum is free and open to the public. Seating is limited and is first-come, first-served.
"Given the national conversation about the role Trayvon's race and attire played in his death, we thought it was important to have a community conversation about the media images of boys and men of color," said Dori Maynard, president of the Robert C. Maynard Institute for Journalism Education, who is co-sponsoring the forum along with the Oakland Tribune and Bay Area News Group.
"We hope this conversation will go beyond talking about the negative perceptions of coverage to also talk about ways in ways in which the media can better cover boys and men of color. Hopefully this dialogue will deepen the relationship between the news media and the community, resulting in more nuanced coverage."
Joining Maynard on the panel will be Kevin Weston, of New America Media; W. Kamau Bell, a comedian who attacks racism and prejudice through humor; and Thomas Peele, Bay Area News Group digital investigative reporter and author of the book, "Killing the Messinger," which details the slaying of former Oakland Post Editor Chauncey Bailey and takes a detailed look at the racial dynamics that gave rise to the Black Muslim sect whose members were later responsible for Bailey's death. BANG Community Engagement Editor Martin G. Reynolds will moderate the discussion.
TrayvonMartin, 17, from Florida, was slain by neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman several weeks ago. Zimmerman has remained free despite increased calls for his arrest.
Even President Barack Obama weighed in Friday, saying, "If I had a son, he would look like Trayvon."
The shooting took place Feb. 26, when Zimmerman, 28, pursued, confronted and fatally shot Martin, an unarmed high school student carrying only an iced tea and a bag of Skittles.
Zimmerman has said the shooting was in self-defense.
While patrolling the Sanford, Fla., gated community where Martin's father lived, Zimmerman reportedly told a police dispatcher, "This kid is up to no good."
There has been no indication Martin was doing anything but walking home. Zimmerman's supporters have said he is not a racist.
So what led Zimmerman to view Martin as a threat? Join us to share your views and discuss this important issue.
For more information, email Reynolds atmreynolds@bayareanewsgroup.com or call 510-390-1779.
