March 25--Black women from the grass roots to the highest branches of Virginia government gathered in a high school auditorium to honor the sisters whose shoulders have provided a boost to them and the Richmond community. 
"Celebrating African-American Women Achievers," the ninth annual Heritage Celebration, was a living-history lesson, a forum for contemporary issues and a cultural feast.
Honored Saturday at Franklin Military Academy in Richmond's East End were retired Richmond schools Superintendent Lucille M. Brown; Richmond City Council Vice President Ellen F. Robertson; Church Hill civic leader Mary Thompson; Angela Patton, whose Camp Diva seeks to empower at-risk African-American girls; and Grace E. Harris, a retired Virginia Commonwealth University provost and vice president who twice served as acting president of the school that once denied her admission because of her race.
"They are phenomenal. They have gone beyond the call of duty," said Del. Delores L. McQuinn, D-Richmond, who hosted the event with Councilwoman Cynthia I. Newbille.
"The five honorees this afternoon, these are tremendous shoulders to stand on," Newbille said.
The afternoon featured an array of cultural events, from African drums and dance to the spoken word to a theatrical production by Theatre IV. That play, "The Oliver Hill Story," is based on the meeting of the civil rights lawyer and young Barbara Johns of Prince Edward County, who led more than 400 students at all-black Moton High School in the 1951 strike that resulted in a lawsuit that became part of the Supreme Court decision striking down the doctrine of "separate but equal" education.
The event's keynote speaker was Sulayman Clark, a university administrator and consultant whose historical novel "The Rains" is based on hundreds of scrapbooks discovered at Cheyney (Pa.) University containing newspaper clippings between 1850 and 1910.
The creator of the scrapbooks, Philadelphian William H. Dorsey, was part of a group of African-Americans who shared a sense of responsibility for preserving black history and achievement.
"This was more than a hobby to these people. It was a sacred mission," Clark said.
But Clark, given the past-as-prologue undercurrent, ended his talk on a contemporary note. He said he had woken up in the middle of the night thinking of TrayvonMartin, the unarmed black teenager shot to death by a neighborhood watch volunteer in Sanford, Fla., while walking from a convenience store with snacks.
"It's a heartbreaking story," Clark said. "We can't bring Trayvon back. We know that. But history will record ... that just about a month has passed, and there's been no arrest."
He called the episode "a teachable moment" and said Martin's death cannot be in vain.
"This is history in the making," he said, "and Lord knows, it can't end where it is now."
mwilliams@timesdispatch.com (804) 649-6815
___ (c)2012 the Richmond Times-Dispatch (Richmond, Va.) Visit the Richmond Times-Dispatch (Richmond, Va.) at www.timesdispatch.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
