Stories from throughout the nation selected and edited for our readers from the Associated Press, New York Times, Washington Post and Bloomberg News.
Calls for justice build in Fla. killing
Attorneys for the family of Trayvon Martin and the Florida neighborhood watch captain who fatally shot the unarmed African-American teen joined the national chorus of voices calling Saturday for justice in the case.
As demonstrators took to the streets in Washington, Chicago and other major cities to voice outrage over Martin's death and the local police investigation of it, an attorney for the Martin family told board members of the National Association of Black Journalists that federal and local officials have assured the family that the case is a priority. 
Meanwhile, an attorney representing the neighborhood watch captain, George Zimmerman, broadly defended his client and said he believes evidence will show that a Florida law allowing use of deadly force against an attacker was properly applied.
Zimmerman has not been charged in the Feb. 26 shooting that has ignited racial tensions and raised questions about the handling of the case.
EAST
No smoke detector in fire that killed 8
A fire tore through a two-story home that had no functioning smoke detectors in Charleston, W. Va., killing eight family members, including six children, Mayor Danny Jones said. He said he believed it was the city's deadliest fire in at least six decades.
Search for missing toddler renewed
With the ground clear of winter's snow, about 100 searchers aided by tracking dogs renewed their search for a Maine toddler who's been missing for three months.
Police say Ayla Reynolds' father, Justin DiPietro, and two other adults in the home on the night the girl disappeared haven't been totally forthcoming, and some of the girl's blood was found in her father's bedroom. No charges have been filed.
Planes believed to have collided
A pilot whose plane crashed was conscious when people ripped off the door of her Cessna 180 to pull her to safety, but authorities said two people in the other plane were killed. That crash and another of single-engine planes north of Denver, which occurred minutes apart, are being investigated as a possible midair collision, Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Mike Fergus said.
The two people who died appeared to be males and were believed to be an instructor pilot and a student.
WASHINGTON
Obama pushes highway aid bill
President Barack Obama wants Congress to end a showdown that threatens to cut off federal highway and transit aid to states just as the spring construction season starts. In his weekly radio and Internet address, Obama encouraged voters to pressure Democrats and Republicans to pass a long-term transportation bill.
He said the economy will take a hit otherwise as construction projects sit idle.
Obama reiterated the White House call for Congress to adopt the two-year, $109 billion bill the Senate approved easily last week. House Republicans are divided over a five-year, $260 billion package.
In the Republican address in response, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said the time is now to repeal the president's health care act.
ELSEWHERE
Station astronauts duck space junk
A discarded chunk of a Russian rocket missed the International Space Station early Saturday. However, it came close enough to force six astronauts to seek shelter in escape capsules. It was the third time in 12 years that astronauts have had to seek shelter from space junk.
Film director ready for deep-sea dive
A submarine that will take "Titanic" director James Cameron to the Earth's deepest point has made a successful unmanned test dive to a depth of 7 miles. Cameron is headed to the test dive site, and if all goes well, he plans to spend about six hours exploring and filming the bottom of the Mariana Trench, the deepest spot in Earth's oceans. Swiss engineer Jacques Piccard and U.S. Navy Capt. Don Walsh, in a 1960 dive, are the only men to have reached the spot.
