BARACK Obama stepped into the controversy over the shooting of an unarmed black teenager last night amid fears the killing could cause race riots across the U.S. Black leaders demanded justice as angry protests by thousands of demonstrators threatened to boil over into violence. 
TrayvonMartin, 17, was shot dead by an over-zealous neighbourhood watch volunteer when he went out to buy a bag of Skittles near his Florida home.
The shooting happened nearly a month ago, but the Hispanic gunman is still free, claiming he acted in self-defence.
But civil rights activist Reverend Al Sharpton and the teenager's family have led demands for the arrest of 28-year-old George Zimmerman, claiming the killing was racially motivated.
In an attempt to defuse the tension, President Obama made an emotional plea for America to do some 'soul searching' over the tragedy.
'If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon,' said Mr Obama, a father of two daughters, Malia, 13, and Sasha, ten.
He spoke out after coming under attack from some black leaders for failing to comment on a case.
'When I think about this boy, I think about my own kids,' said Mr Obama at the White House. 'Every parent in America should be able to understand why it is absolutely imperative that we investigate every aspect of this, and that everybody pull together.
'Obviously, this is a tragedy. I can only imagine what these parents are going through. All of us have to do some soul searching to figure out how something like this has happened.' Students in at least eight Florida schools walked out in protest yesterday and more demonstrations are planned.
On Thursday, the police chief in Sanford, Florida, where the shooting happened, stepped down because of the widespread condemnation of his failure to arrest Mr Zimmerman.
Before the shooting, Mr Zimmerman was heard on a police radio dispatcher's tape saying he was following the teenager on February 26. 'This guy looks like he's up to no good ... these ****holes always get away,' he said.
