March 25--YORK, Pa. -- He reminded Narissa Knight of boys she sees everyday, passing by her home en route to nearby William Penn Senior High School.
He wasn't from York, but he could have been, she said, standing next to friend Corrie Orr, who carried a handmade cardboard sign reading "Hoodie. Skittles. Iced Tea. Black. Do I match the profile?"
TrayvonMartin, 17, was wearing a hooded sweatshirt Feb. 26 when he was shot and killed by a neighborhood watch volunteer in Florida after a trip to a convenience store. He was unarmed. 
The volunteer, George Zimmerman, told police he shot the black teenager in self-defense -- a claim that has fueled demonstrations nationwide.
"I'm outraged for (Martin's) family -- that they had to go through this," said Elisha Brantley, another York resident standing with Orr and Knight at an anti-violence rally Saturday at the York County Judicial Center. "There's no way to make it right. A little boy is gone."
Knight allows her 12-year-old daughter to walk to the corner store by herself.
"I hope we're a nation where you can do that and know your child will come home," she said.
As for Brantley, she's a bit more cautious when it comes to letting her three children -- two boys and a girl -- out of sight.
"Everyone thinks I'm hard," she said, "but I'd much rather have my kids than a body bag if I let them run to the store."
The three women stood among more than 200 people who, despite the Saturday afternoon downpour, met at spots around the city before converging on the courthouse steps.
After all, people get shot and killed in the rain, too.
And their funerals are held rain or shine, one presenter pointed out.
"It's not just about blacks," said the Rev. Frank Hawkins of Maranatha Church in York. "It's about all the violence going on. There's been a lot of killings here in the city."
Diana Lee and her 14-year-old son, Mykel, drove from Dallastown to support the cause. In the car, family conversation focused TrayvonMartin's slaying, more than 1,000 miles south of York County.
"Self-defense isn't violence," Diana Lee said. "Violence is when you purposely hurt somebody or kill somebody."
Some reports suggest Martin and Zimmerman engaged in an altercation before the shooting.
"I just think that guy is somewhat like an idiot," Mykel Lee said. "He was never registered as a neighborhood watchman. . . . If someone takes a swing at you, you don't take out a gun and shoot them."
Others didn't seem so sure about the shooting, now under investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice.
"If you go by what's being told, you would think that (Zimmerman) is wrong -- that he had no reason to do what he did," said James Mosely of Manchester Township. "But both sides still need to be told."
Elmer Speer, pastor at Manor Baptist Church in York, favors Pennsylvania's Castle Doctrine. The bill, which became law last year, eliminates a requirement that a person retreat or find a safe place before resorting to deadly force outside the home."I don't want to go back to the Wild West," he said, "but historically, there were less killings then than there are now."
He believes there's more to be told about Zimmerman's motive in the shooting.
"He may have very well overstepped his bounds," Speer added. "But it's a difficult thing. There's violence within the law and without the law."
@laurenboyer; 771-2062
___ (c)2012 York Daily Record (York, Pa.) Visit York Daily Record (York, Pa.) at www.ydr.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
