On Sunday, the Rev. Raphael G. Warnock, senior pastor of Atlanta's historic Ebenezer Baptist Church, greeted more than 2,500 congregants at the 11 a.m. service in a hoodie --- a Morehouse College hoodie to be exact --- worn with gray dress pants.
It was a show of support for TrayvonMartin, the black 17-year-old who was killed Feb. 26 while returning from a convenience store to a gated community in Sanford, Fla. 
Warnock and his congregation joined churchgoers and demonstrators around Atlanta and across the country Sunday as sermons, prayer vigils and marches continued in protest of what is believed to be a case of racial profiling.
Martin was wearing a hoodie, the term used for the popular hooded sweatshirts, when he was shot and killed by George Zimmerman last month. Police said Martin was unarmed --- carrying a bag of candy and iced tea --- as he returned to the community where his father was staying. Zimmerman, who called in a suspicious person complaint and was told by 911 operators to remain in his car and not approach Martin, claims he was acting in self-defense and has not been charged in the case.
Attendees of the 10 a.m. service Sunday at Greater Works Assembly Church in southeast Atlanta were encouraged to wear hoodies.
"Many people wear hoodies. Athletes wear hoodies. There are people walking the streets, walking dogs. Hoodies are not germane to crime and illegal activities," said the Rev. Darryl Winston of Greater Works.
Ebenezer's Warnock noted: "As the church of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the church of nonviolent struggle on behalf of justice, we thought it important for us to say that a hoodie is not a weapon. We stand today in solidarity with the Martin family and in support of our young people who deserve better than to be stigmatized and stereotyped."
He said he hoped the incident would become a teachable moment for the entire nation.
"As law-abiding citizens, we expect that the police and the criminal justice system will operate in a fair manner and so far that has not been the case," Warnock said. "Why not arrest Mr. Zimmerman and allow the wheels of justice to go through their process? Then we would have to be satisfied with the outcome. But without an arrest, the process itself is arrested. That is why you see such an outpouring on the streets of America."
Donald Hector, 40, of Ellenwood, a member of Ebenezer, was pleased that his church recognized the injustice of Martin's death. "I have been following the case in the media," said Hector, who was wearing a black and gold Pittsburgh Steelers hoodie. The father of four sons ages 21, 19, 9 and 8 said he worries about their safety in light of the Martin incident and given how young black men are sometimes viewed.
Keon McIntosh, a junior at Lakeside High School in DeKalb County, attended the service wearing a Hampton University hoodie.
"It's unfortunate there's a stereotype against black teens and how they dress," said McIntosh, a member of the church's youth group. "People are judged by how they look and not what's inside."
At First Iconium Baptist, another predominantly black church in Atlanta, the Rev. Timothy McDonald told congregants at the early Sunday service: "We will not rest until Mr. Zimmerman, who killed young TrayvonMartin, is arrested. This could have been any one of our children."
Channel 2 Action News and The Associated Press contributed to this article.
