Music and arts in schools
Dear Editor: How wonderful it was to read your March 23 article about ArtSPARK and the work it is doing to bring the arts to schools in Santa Clara County.
In San Mateo County, the Mid-Peninsula League of the San Francisco Symphony, just one of the 10 symphony leagues serving the Bay Area, has nine docents who go into three schools in the Ravenswood City School District. They give five hour-long tutorials to the second and third grades. This league raises funds to purchase the 350 tickets and rent the seven buses needed to attend the Concert for Kids at Davies Hall performed by the San Francisco Symphony.
The San Francisco Symphony has many similar programs in its education outreach programs. Its Concerts for Kids started in 1919 and now has about 35,000 children attending annually from all over the Bay Area. Students in grades K-6 are prepared by docents from the various symphony leagues to go up to Davies Symphony Hall and hear the music and instruments they have learned about. 
The San Francisco Symphony is dynamically led by Donato Cabrera, director of its renowned Youth Orchestra. The music ranges from classical to "Star Wars," with a great deal of audience participation, which the students love.
Mimi Kugushev,
Menlo Park
Go with natural gas
Dear Editor: Now the brains want to electrify Caltrain for the small price of $1.5 billion. Has anyone asked what the return on that investment is and how long it will take to pay for itself? The price of electricity is high; the price of natural gas is low. Why don't we just transform diesel engines into natural gas engines? It would be cheaper, we would not disrupt the roadways and everyone would win. But I am just a poor, dumb California native.
Pat White,
Menlo Park
Fees for little-used services
Dear Editor: The newspapers have reported that Palo Alto is considering adding flat rates for street sweeping, hazardous waste and bulk waste pickup at individual locations. The last service already had a fee attached and is used by few people. The hazardous waste fee would be charging everyone for a service few use and the street sweeping fee would also be charging residents who live on streets that do not receive street sweeping, such as private streets and culs-de-sac. It may not even be legal to charge people for services they do not receive.
Why not just charge a flat fee for a service almost everyone does use: recycling? That would be more honest, and people who support recycling probably would not mind paying a small fee for it.
Natalie Fisher,
Palo Alto
Mixed messages
Dear Editor: San Francisco Sheriff Ross Mirkarimi is charged and arrested for grabbing his wife's arm. Yet, volunteer neighborhood watch zealot George Zimmerman, instructed by a 911 operator to cease his distorted surveillance, hunts down and murders Trayvon Martin in cold blood and is not charged but walking free in Sanford, Fla.
So my suggestion to any parent in San Francisco is, if you're shopping and you feel the need to grab a hold of your child, watch out because you may be facing criminal charges. But if you're in Florida and you are returning home from the store with some Skittles and a soda, watch out or you may be found dead at the end of a lunatic's gun.
Cynthia Marcopulos,
South San Francisco
