THE CAPITAL-JOURNAL
More than 70 people gathered Saturday evening on the south side of the Statehouse grounds in Topeka to lend their voices to the national debate that has ensued since a teenager was fatally shot in an Orlando, Fla., suburb last month. 
The rally was organized by Sonny Scroggins, a community activist, and featured about a dozen signs in support of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, and the locally embattled but popular clothing option - hoodies.
Among the protest signs at the rally were: "Justice must be served," "TrayvonMartin innocent," "Occupy the hood," "Where's the justice" and "Hell no, hoodies won't go!"
Lewis Jenkins, a retired Topekan, said he didn't intend to give a speech, but Scroggins asked that of him and Jenkins obliged.
"If we don't take a stand now our children and grandchildren will be in trouble," he said.
Jenkins, who said he has taken his commentary to news and social media websites by posting his thoughts, said it is time for folks to stand up. He said injustice is injustice - everyone should be afforded the same opportunities regardless of race or creed.
Martin, who is black, was shot to death Feb. 26 in Sanford City, Fla. George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch captain, was the triggerman. Zimmerman has been identified in news accounts as being both white and Hispanic.
Martin was unarmed at the time of the shooting, and Zimmerman, who hasn't been arrested, said he acted in self defense.
Hoodies came into the local spotlight when Topeka's police chief in February suggested crime could be deterred by making people remove their hoods before entering a business. Topeka's mayor said he wanted discussion on the idea.
Arturo Lassiter said he attended the rally to show his support in hopes that justice will be served.
"Every person deserves protection," he said. "Everyone deserves to have life and all of their rights."
Whether innocent or guilty, Lassiter said, the shooter needs to have his day in court so the facts can come out.
Lassiter, who has a young family, said he can identify with the Martins in that he would want all the support he could muster if he lost a member of his family to violence.
The attentive audience provided occasional shouts of agreement or encouragement to the multiple speakers. Minister Ronnie Lassiter Jr., of Faith Temple Church of God in Christ, was the last speaker at the rally, which lasted nearly 40 minutes.
Dressed in a black shirt with white lettering that declared "The answer is Jesus" on its front, the minister said each person knows the difference between right and wrong. He quoted a passage from Romans 2:15.
"That's not because I said it." Lassiter said. "It's not because of a law or a congressman or a president who said it, it's because the Bible says it."
He said Christ will set you free and save you from anything.
"We don't need guns, not if you have the spirit of God," Lassiter said.
