March 22--RICHARDSON, Texas And Dallas, Texas -- Several neighborhood watch groups in North Texas want to reassure residents their volunteer security officers are not practicing under the same apparent order as the neighborhood watch volunteer who police say shot and killed Trayvon Martin. George Zimmerman, a 28-year-old watch commander, shot and killed Martin in February. Martin, a 17-year-old, who was walking on his way back to his father's fiance's house, had just left a nearby convenient store. ZImmerman called 911 when he saw the teen, saying he was "black," "looks suspicious," and was wearing a hoodie. Though the dispatcher advised against following the teen, and told Zimmerman police were on the way, Zimmerman, police say, pursued Martin, who was on the phone with his girlfriend at the time. Zimmerman shot and killed Martin. He told police it was because Martin attacked him. Police found no weapon on the teen, who was about 100 pounds lighter than Zimmerman, and had change, a pack of candy and a can of ice tea. 
Attorneys like former Dallas County Prosecutor Dennis Fuller say there are some restrictions in Texas as to when you can defend yourself and there are certainly limitations on when you can use deadly force to defend yourself.  Assuming the other party is using or threatening to use force against you, a possible prosecutor's question, in a case like this, would be whether the actor reasonably believed deadly force was immediately necessary to protect himself from deadly force, or to prevent a violent crime.
Fuller adds, "This is being characterized as a self defense case. The prosecutor and the judge both get to evaluate: Was it reasonable for him to be in such fear that he had to use deadly force? We have a couple of statutes that allow folks to use deadly force to protect themselves and their property. In Texas, the question would be relatively the same. Anyone that's been through concealed handgun training in Texas knows that you don't go lookin' for trouble."
Also, certified concealed weapons training instructors like Doug Reeves of Richardson's Lincoln American Concealed Handgun Academy, say anyone who carries a fire arm should be properly trained and follow rules, guidelines and laws.
"If I was in that situation, I would have followed the young man around, keep my distance and notify police, and wait until police come and handle the situation. In Texas, someone has to be presenting deadly force against someone in order for that person to resort to deadly force," Reeves said.
Bob McClure has been with Richardson's Richland Park Crime Watch Patrol for 15 of the neighborhood watch programs 18 successful years. Each of their volunteers receive training.
McClure says, "We don't carry any weapons, cause if I was to get out and somebody was to get out and something happen, I could get sued, the city could get sued. The name of the group is crime watch, and that's the key.--WATCH. We're the eyes and ears of police. We see something, hear something, we to call it in. I have 54 people on patrol that circulate. Our crime went down 60% that first year."
___ (c)2012 KDAF-TV (Dallas) Visit KDAF-TV (Dallas) at www.the33tv.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
