March 24--Latasha Fuller, a sophomore at Winston-Salem State University, never knew TrayvonMartin, an unarmed 17-year-old teenager shot and killed last month in Florida. 
George Zimmerman, the 28-year-old man who was captain of his gated community's neighborhood watch association, told Sanford Police investigators that he shot Martin in self-defense.
Police declined to charge Zimmerman, sparking outrage across the country. State and federal authorities are investigating, and Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee has stepped down temporarily.
But Fuller thinks what happened to Martin could happen to other young black men, such as her brother or cousin, if someone sees them as suspicious.
Fuller and more than 30 other Winston-Salem State students gathered Friday at Coltrane Hall on campus to discuss what they could do to raise awareness about the case.
Larry Little, a professor at Winston-Salem State University, and other faculty members and the Rev. Carlton Eversley, a member of the Ministers Conference of Winston-Salem and Vicinity, helped the students brainstorm ideas and urged them to fight.
"Trayvon may not be physically with us, but we can win this battle for justice," Little said.
Winston-Salem State students are planning a rally Wednesday. The details are still being worked out.
And the Wake Forest University Black Law Students Association is hosting a candlelight vigil at 8 p.m. Monday in the law school's courtyard. S. Wayne Patterson, the president of the local chapter of the NAACP, Forsyth District Judge Denise Hartsfield and Walter Marshall, a Forsyth County commissioner, will be among the speakers.
They are joining others across the country who have held demonstrations, demanding that Zimmerman be arrested and charged in Martin's killing.
Darryl Hunt, who was exonerated in 2004 after spending nearly 19 years in prison for a murder that he did not commit, urged Winston-Salem State students to continue fighting for justice in TrayvonMartin's case.
"Yesterday it was Trayvon. Tomorrow it could be you," he said.
___ (c)2012 Winston-Salem Journal (Winston Salem, N.C.) Visit Winston-Salem Journal (Winston Salem, N.C.) at www2.journalnow.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
