By Alyce Koruna 
I woke up around 3 one morning last week and could not go back to sleep. One chilling reminder stood out from the news: "Our son is your son."  
These were the powerful words of the mother of slain Florida teenager TrayvonMartin. They warned parents of African American boys of the danger our sons face for a new and preposterous crime: "walking while black." 
More than a decade ago, I worried and wrote about a similar danger my young sons faced for "driving while black." The nation and the region were learning about the ugly practice of racial profiling by police. New Jersey's state troopers were embroiled in a controversy over the shooting of four minority kids who were on their way to a college basketball tryout. The case opened the floodgates for a national conversation about racial profiling and its place - if any - in police work. 
It also reinforced for black parents the importance of teaching children - especially boys, who are in the greatest jeopardy - police etiquette: "Keep your hands on the steering wheel." "Inform the officer of what you are going to do before you do it." "Use standard English." The idea was to teach them to leave their pride at the door in the interest of coming back home alive. I succeeded in teaching these and other lessons to my boys, now 16 and 18, one of them driving and the other studying for his permit. 
My insomnia the other night stemmed from a new worry: armed, racial-profiling vigilantes under police protection. Sound far-fetched? Perhaps, but TrayvonMartin's parents had to suffer a second blow when their son's death at the hands of a civilian did not lead to a prompt police response. 
George Zimmerman saw a black youth in his Florida neighborhood and took it upon himself to question him. Frank Taaffe, defending his fellow neighborhood watchman, said all Martin had to do was answer Zimmerman's questions. The suggestion is that almost anyone has the right to question young men - perhaps my young men - simply for walking around wearing the clothing of their time (Martin's hooded sweatshirt was cited as suspect) and the skin color they were born with. And if their questions aren't answered, they somehow have the right to use deadly force. 
Is Florida's policing so inadequate that neighborhood watchers cannot simply call 911 and report "suspicious" people? And why are vigilantes carrying guns? I don't know people who walk around with guns who aren't looking for something violent to happen. 
Does this type of behavior occur in the Delaware Valley? Could it happen in Buckingham or Morrisville, where my kids spend their time? 
The practices revealed by this shooting are even more repugnant than those that surfaced in New Jersey 13 years ago. This can happen again if we let it, and next time it could be my child who gets in trouble simply for walking while black. 
Alyce Koruna is a writer who lives in Morrisville. She can be reached at alycekoruna@gmail.com.    
