March 24--The Miami Heat got a lot of attention before Friday night's 88-73 win over the Pistons for their demonstration in support of justice in the case of slain teenager Trayvon Martin.
When game time arrived, the Heat made a quiet statement with short messages written on its players' shoes.
Miami chose to make its loudest statement on the court with its inspired play as it trampled on the Pistons and shot 57.1% in the first half and taking a 59-36 lead.
The Pistons seemed to stage their own sort of protest -- against the basic principles of basketball. Offense. Defense. You name it, the Pistons pretty much failed at it on their way to a fourth straight loss.
Dwyane Wade led the Heat (35-11) with 24 points, and LeBron James had 17 points and 10 assists.
Brandon Knight scored 18 points and was 4-for-4 on three-pointers. He entered the game tied with Lindsey Hunter (1993-94) for the Pistons' rookie record with 69 season three-pointers.
Otherwise, the Pistons had few highlights as the Heat ran wild.
"Look, any time a team like that that is extremely well-coached and is together for time, they are going to continue to get better because they will understand how to play off each other and with each other," Pistons coach Lawrence Frank said. "In different game situations they understand the different time and score, when they have to crank it up a little bit. So they obviously have a high-level team."
The postscript Lawrence didn't add was that the Pistons clearly weren't at that level Friday. They gave up 27 points on 23 turnovers -- two short of their season worst. They shot 52.9% from the free-throw line and simply looked outmanned all over the floor.
"We played well all game," James said. "Other than our turnovers in the third quarter, we played a pretty good game. We held a pretty good offensive team to 70-plus points, so we played well."
The Pistons shot 38.7% from the field, and one of the most inexplicable performances came from shooting guard Ben Gordon. He was white hot Wednesday at Denver, when he tied the NBA record by going 9-for-9 on three pointers. On Friday, he went 0-for-4 from behind the arc.
The third quarter brought some hope to the Pistons and enlivened their fans. Mostly through the play of reserves, they outscored the Heat, 21-13, in the quarter. By the fourth quarter, the Pistons had cut the deficit to 74-65 with 8:58 left.
"We showed toughness coming back in the game," Jonas Jerebko said. "But at the same time, we gave them the lead in the beginning and never really got back after that. We've got to try harder than that."
Contact Carlos Monarrez: 313-222-6697 or cmonarrez@freepress.com
___ (c)2012 the Detroit Free Press Visit the Detroit Free Press at www.freep.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
