No issue is as sensitive, explosive or fundamental to American politics and national self-perception as race. The United States has made titanic strides in the past two generations to overcome centuries of racial division and the bitter legacy of civil war. But every so often an incident occurs which not only highlights lingering prejudice and injustice but stirs atavistic emotions that are all too readily exploited by those seeking political advantage. The fatal shooting of a black teenager by a white vigilante in a gated community in Florida is one such incident, and has provoked the loudest racial uproar for 21 years, one whose echoes are now reverberating around the White House.
To any reasonable person, the shooting looks like an inexcusably racist provocation. Trayvon Martin, a 17-year-old black youth, was walking home when George Zimmerman, a white 28-yearold community guard, thought he was acting suspiciously. 
Although told by local police not to follow the hooded youth, he did so and, in circumstances yet to be explained, shot him.
Mr Zimmerman was neither arrested nor accused of any crime. Under Florida's controversial "stand-your-ground" law, the lethal use of force is permitted in cases of self defence. In the five years since the law was passed, however, the number of "justifiable homicides" has tripled to more than 100 in 2010 from just over 30. And despite the vigorous support for the law by the National Rifle Association, critics, who include Florida's prosecutors, have said it encourages vigilante justice. The matter might have remained there, had it not been for the outrage that swept across the black community in Sandford and then spread rapidly, via social media, to the rest of the state and beyond. Many African-Americans see the incident as a blatant example of racial profiling and double standards: had the youth been white, they argue, his assailant would swiftly have been prosecuted.
Florida's authorities have reacted with commendable speed and balance. The prosecutor and police chief have stood down and the Governor has called for a thorough review of the law. Like the Rodney King beating in California in 1991, the incident has stirred passions across America and the Justice Department and the FBI have opened a civil rights investigation.
But it is the reactions of President Obama that will matter more than anything else - first, because he is, as the nation's head of state and government, the man who must set the tone on issues of moral and political importance; and second because he is the first man of African descent to occupy the White House. As such, however, race is an issue of extreme sensitivity for him. A sharp condemnation of the events could trigger a political backlash in Florida, prejudice any inquiry and even trigger a distracting row over states' rights.
So far, Mr Obama has reacted adroitly, expressing sympathy for the victim's family and calling on all America to engage in "soul-searching". He himself made his finest campaign speech on race, in reaction to the row over his outspoken black pastor's remarks. And after his less happy intervention over a black professor mistakenly arrested as a burglar in 2009, he urged America, and himself, to draw the "teachable moment" from the incident. That was the right phrase. It is one that America must still draw, day in, day out, in its cities and in its politics. Florida has shown the lethal consequences of not doing so.
