The tragic killing of TrayvonMartinin Florida casts a spotlight on the Neighborhood Watch program, which is used by thousands of communities across the nation to reduce crime. Although news accounts vary, at the very worst the killer was a police wannabe who patrolled his neighborhood with an itchy trigger finger. At the very best, he apparently was patrolling under the auspices of a Neighborhood Watch effort that was outside the purview of the local police, who could have provided critical training and advice. 
Even in my small Northern Virginia community, we have been instructed by Fairfax County's crime prevention officers to patrol by car only; to carry no weapons; to report suspicious activity by calling 911;  to never - ever - confront suspicious people; and to travel only in pairs. The latter policy allows a more cool-headed patrol partner to discourage an overeager companion from acting hastily. 
Indeed, if George Zimmerman had had a partner, perhaps Mr. Martin's death could have been prevented. This activity is called Neighborhood "Watch" because patrols are supposed to watch and report, not engage. One hopes that this tragedy will encourage communities that have  unsanctioned patrols to coordinate with their local police to ensure that their volunteers help prevent crime, not cause it.
Kirk F. Randall, Fairfax
l
The killing of TrayvonMartin may or may not have been partly about race, although the protests seem intent on making it so. Even President Obama seems to think this is exclusively about children who might look like him. 
This focus on race, however, obscures a larger, universal issue. This killing was about guns and their insane proliferation in our society.
Many things are in dispute here, but the core facts are not. Two people had an altercation of some kind, one of whom had a gun. The result, while tragic, is not surprising. The question we should be asking ourselves is: Why do we allow private citizens to prowl the streets with guns acting as self-appointed vigilantes?
Larry DeWitt, Windsor Mill, Md.  
