March 22--Kansas has a "stand your ground law" very similar to one in Florida, which is being cited in defense of a neighborhood watch captain who last week shot to death an unarmed black teenager.
The law, both in Kansas and Florida, says a citizen doesn't have to retreat before using deadly force if in fear of death or imminent harm. 
Florida has had such a law since 2005. Kansas lawmakers adopted the provision in its self-defense statutes in 2010, expanding on a law that long allowed Kansans to use deadly force in protecting their property.
Police in Sanford, Fla., said 28-year-old George Zimmerman says he shot Trayvon Martin, 17, in self-defense during a confrontation in a gated community. Police did not arrest Zimmerman after the shooting, but the State Attorney announced Tuesday the case will go before a county grand jury, according to Associated Press stories about the incident.
News reports indicate Martin was walking through the neighborhood when Zimmerman spotted him and began to follow him as he called police to report the suspicious man in the neighborhood. 911 recordings indicate Zimmerman was instructed by police not to follow Martin, but he did and then confronted Martin when Martin pulled out a cell phone to call his girlfriend.
"You can use deadly force in Kansas if you believe it is reasonably necessary," said Reno County District Attorney Keith Schroeder. "There are two standards that are applied in Kansas in any type of situation like that: one objective, the other subjective."
For the objective, prosecutors look at the facts "from a reasonable person-type vantage point," Schroeder said. "How would a reasonable person, given this situation, have reacted?"
"And did someone put themselves in that situation or did they find themselves in it," he said.
The subjective view looks at what the person involved believed at the time, Schroeder said, and whether "there are facts that support or justify this person in the acts they took from their personal perspective."
For example, Schroeder said, were there prior instances in the neighborhood of break-ins or violence at the time of night the incident occurred, and whether the person killed matched the description of a suspect or how suspicious their behavior was.
The person might be justified in shooting if he believed the person was pulling a weapon -- rather than a cell phone.
Also, Schroeder said, even though police had been called, "I would want to know if police had been called before, and how long it took them to respond. Had he had something happen before? We might assume police would arrive in a few minutes, but was the closest officer to respond 30 minutes or longer away? It all has to be fact driven."
Kansas has had a "stand your ground law" for many years if an incident was on the shooters property, Schroeder said. The change in the law for all cases of self-defense has not resulted in any significant change in behavior, he said.
For that reason, the Florida incident doesn't give him much cause for concern in relations to law in Kansas, Schroeder said.
"If you look at the statistics, you'll probably discover this would be an aberration," he said. "It is a possibility, but statistically it doesn't cause me concern."
Attorneys in the Reno County Public Defender's office said no such cases have arisen in Kansas, so the law remains new territory. Professors at the Washburn and University of Kansas schools of law were on spring break this week and unavailable to comment.
___ (c)2012 The Hutchinson News (Hutchinson, Kan.) Visit The Hutchinson News (Hutchinson, Kan.) at www.hutchnews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
