March 23--NEW YORK -- More than 1.5 million people, including countless New Yorkers, have signed a petition http://www.change.org/petitions/prosecute-the-killer-of-our-son-17-year-old-trayvon-martin at change.org encouraging Attorney General Eric Holder, himself a New Yorker, to thoroughly investigate the shooting of TrayvonMartin. The main response on Friday to the case, though, came from Holder's boss, the President of the United States.
"If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon," President Barack Obama said in a response to a question about the case of the killing of the unarmed teen, asked after the president's White House Rose Garden announcement of a new World Bank president. "And I think [Trayvon's parents] are right to expect that all of us as Americans are going to take this with the seriousness it deserves, and that we're going to get to the bottom of exactly what happened," President Obama said in a clear indication that the shooting that took place in suburban Orlando a month ago is now a national issue. 
It was in the evening on February 26th that Sanford Florida neighborhood watch captain George Zimmerman shot and killed Martin, 17. Zimmerman told police that he'd acted in self-defense when he shot the unarmed teen who was on his way home from picking up a bag of Skittles and an iced tea for his younger brother from a 7-11 near the condo where Trayvon was staying with his father and his father's fiancee.
Zimmerman told local investigators that he had found the teen, who was wearing a hoodie in the rain of that evening, suspicious. Zimmerman followed Trayvon, against the order of a police dispatcher Zimmerman had called at the time. Sanford cops did not arrest Zimmerman, citing no probable cause, pending a local investigation.
Now, however, in the wake of a national outcry that has led to the Sanford police chief temporarily stepping down, and the prosecutor for the Sanford area recusing himself, federal and state agents are also investigating, and calls for thorough justice come from the very top of the legal system.
"I think all of us have to do some soul-searching to figure out how does something like this happen," President Obama said. "And that means... examine the laws and the context for what happened, as well as the specifics of the incident."
TrayvonMartin's family responded to the president's comments in a written response. "It is humbling that President Obama took time from his busy schedule to talk about Trayvon and offer the support of the Department of Justice and other federal organizations," the written statement said. "The President's personal comments touched us deeply and made us wonder: If his son looked liked Trayvon and wore a hoodie, would he be suspicious too?"
The president mentioned Eric Holder at the beginning of his comments, saying that as "the head of the executive branch... the attorney general reports to me, so I've got to be careful about my statements to make sure that we're not impairing any investigation that's taking place right now." Holder met with some African-American religious leaders a couple of hours after the president's late morning comments and, in the meeting that had been scheduled long before the TrayvonMartin case had become so intense, Holder updated his visitors on the investigation.
Washington will also be the scene on Saturday of a demonstration in support of TrayvonMartin's family.
___ (c)2012 WPIX-TV (New York) Visit WPIX-TV (New York) at www.wpix.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
