March 26--Monday, March 26th a demonstration will be held in Indianapolis, demanding justice for 17-year-old TrayvonMartin.
"The innocence of Trayvon has captured the heart of a lot of people out there. The fact that all he had was candy and a drink, I think that kind of captured his innocence," Emily Caldwell said. Caldwell organized Monday's demonstration. 
Martin was killed as he walked back from a Florida convenience store. He wore a hoodie. He was unarmed. Neighborhood watch volunteer, George Zimmerman, claims he acted in self-defense when he shot Martin in late February.
"What if that was my brother? If he went to get something from the gas station and he never came home," 12-year-old Idris Foster asked. Foster is Caldwell's son.
Idris Foster and his 14-year-old brother, Joseph, heard about what happened and wanted something to be done. "I felt that someone should do something about it 'cause my mom always taught me if something goes wrong stand up for yourself," Idris Foster said.
The local brothers wrote signs, which read: "Please don't shoot me. I only have skittles and a drink. I am Trayvon". The pictures of the brothers holding the signs were posted onCNN'swebsite.
"All I have is skittles and tea. It's like showing how innocent he was. He wasn't trying to harm anybody," Joseph Foster believed.
Idris Foster encouraged his mother, Emily Caldwell, to make something happen. Caldwell created a Facebook page, demanding justice. "I want to see people make a commitment to this whole movement and keep it going," she said.
She asked Hoosiers to march for Martin. "When I see this response I realize I'm not the only mother that sits there and wonders if their kids are going to come back in the house," she said.
More than 10,000 people have been invited to Monday's march in Indianapolis. People who want to participate are encouraged to meet at Crispus Attucks High School (1140 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.Street) at 4:30p.m. Monday, March 26th. The group will then walk about a mile to the American Legion Mall. The group will demonstrate there.
"We as a nation are watching. We as a world are watching and you're not going to continue to be able to kill our sons and get away with [this]," Caldwell said.
"I think its great to get the word out there and like to let people know that just because someone looks a certain way that you shouldn't judge them," Joseph Foster said.
___ (c)2012 WXIN-TV (Indianapolis) Visit WXIN-TV (Indianapolis) at www.fox59.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
