A local police chief and a Florida state prosecutor over-seeing the case of an unarmed black teen shot dead by a neighbourhood watch captain stepped aside Thursday following withering criticism and national outrage that police have declined to arrest the shooter. 
Sanford police Chief Bill Lee's resignation - which he called "temporary" - failed to appease civil-rights and com-munity leaders who are calling for the arrest of watch captain George Zimmer-man, 28, who shot 17-year-old Trayvon Martin and claimed self-defence.
Lee was under mounting pressure and suffered a "no-confidence" vote from the city commission Wednesday. The shakeup at the state level was more surprising as Gov. Rick Scott replaced Tallahassee's lead investigator and formed a task force to review Florida's controversial "Stand Your Ground" law.
Police have said this law, which allows people to use deadly force when they perceive danger in any public place, prevented them from arresting Zimmerman, an Hispanic who has disappeared from public view.
Zimmerman's dad has said his son has been unfairly vilified. He called him a friend of minorities whose true nature was being distorted by national calls for his arrest and allegations that he pursued Martin just because he was black.
Coupled with at least two prior cases that stoked black anger toward the police, the response to the Martin episode had grown so intense Lee said he had no option but to step aside as "my involvement in the matter is overshadowing the process."
Similarly, state attorney Norman Wolfinger said he was stepping down "with the intent of toning down the rhetoric."
Criticism of the investigation came on top of a history of racial tension in Sanford, just north of Orlando.
In 2011, a previous Sanford police chief was forced out of the job after a white police officer's son was captured on video sucker-punching a black home-less man outside a bar.
Sanford police didn't immediately arrest the officer's son, Justin Collison.
But after video of the attack surfaced on local TV and the Internet and provoked an outcry from Sanford civil-rights leaders, Collison was charged weeks later with aggravated battery and disorderly conduct. He eventually pleaded guilty to a misdemeanour charge.
The incident came five years after two white private security guards with ties to the police shot and killed a black teen.
