Primary by primary, Newt Gingrich's reasons for remaining in the presidential race keep getting knocked down.
Where once he saw a path to the nomination through the South, he has suffered a string of embarrassing losses there.
More recently, he made a case that by picking up delegates even in states he did not win, he could stop Mitt Romney from clinching the nomination before the Republican National Convention.
Now that argument, too, is unraveling after Mr. Gingrich won so few votes in the two big contests last week, Illinois and Louisiana, that he was shut out of delegates. 
But humiliation has not changed his will to stay in the race, and now he has advanced another rationale -- he can exert leverage over policy debates, in his party as well as in countering President Obama, who Mr. Gingrich is convinced has been forced to go on the defensive over gasoline prices precisely because of his attacks.
''I have no incentive to get out of the race,'' Mr. Gingrich said before finishing a distant third in Louisiana, with 16 percent of the vote, despite campaigning there most of last week. ''I have every incentive to talk about big ideas and watch Obama dance on energy. Where was the energy issue three weeks ago before I started talking about it?''
But Mr. Gingrich's increasingly quirky campaign is in danger of descending into irrelevancy, at least as far as the Republican nomination is concerned.
He harbors a vision in which there is a floor fight at the nominating convention in August and he emerges the choice of the conservative base. He has taken to citing as a precedent the 1920 convention that chose Warren G. Harding on the 10th ballot -- a far-fetched set of circumstances for a modern political party.
On Friday, Mr. Gingrich drove two hours south of New Orleans along bayous and down lonely causeways to a major oil port, where only 25 voters turned out to hear him speak.
His main reason for going, he acknowledged, was to use the national news media to paint the president as an obstacle to offshore drilling.
And that may explain Mr. Gingrich's true reason for remaining in the race: it keeps him in the spotlight. He clearly relishes the appearances on CNN with Piers Morgan and on Fox News with Sean Hannity. When he travels, a 10-car motorcade conveys him like a head of state, three police cars with flashing lights leading a Secret Service detail and shiny S.U.V.'s for Mr. Gingrich and his staff.
As a candidate, his opinion is sought as major news of the day. Most recently, he made some provocative comments while discussing TrayvonMartin, the black teenager fatally shot by a neighborhood watch volunteer in Sanford, Fla.
After Mr. Obama said that if he had a son, ''he'd look like Trayvon,'' Mr. Gingrich, in a radio interview, called the comment ''disgraceful.'' He implied that the president had injected race where it did not belong.
On Sunday, a senior White House adviser, David Plouffe, called Mr. Gingrich's remarks ''reprehensible.''
''Speaker Gingrich is clearly in the last throes of his political career,'' Mr. Plouffe said on ''This Week'' on ABC. ''You can make a decision whether to go out with some shred of dignity or say these irresponsible, reckless things.''
A senior adviser to Mr. Gingrich pushed back on the suggestion that Mr. Gingrich was still in the race to maintain his place in the spotlight.
''The naysayers and critics and their shopworn cliches about why he can't continue is actually oxygen for him,'' said the adviser, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
And yet that exposure is waning. Mr. Gingrich's full-time traveling press corps is down to a handful of embedded television reporters. Politico and one of the last print reporters departed after Louisiana.
Money has become a serious issue. The Gingrich campaign reported it had only $1.5 million on hand at the end of February and owed more than that, while fund-raising has been tailing off.
But despite the pressures, Mr. Gingrich seems to be enjoying himself campaigning again. Gone are the desultory stump speeches he gave in Alabama and Mississippi earlier in the month, when he seemed weary and discouraged after winning only a single state, Georgia, on Super Tuesday.
''I'm cheerful about going forward,'' he said on Friday.
His schedule has taken on an unhurried pace and easygoing style. He spent several minutes exchanging restaurant tips with reporters the other day, describing a dinner at Cochon in Lafayette, La., as ''spectacular.''
And speaking to students later that day at Tulane, where he got his Ph.D., Mr. Gingrich reminisced fondly, mimicking a German-accented professor he had and extolling ''the experience of New Orleans -- the culture, the history, the sense of life the city has.''
Later, he dropped by the house he and his first wife occupied near the Audubon Zoo, a favorite destination, which he took time out to visit during a break from campaigning.
On Sunday, the campaign announced a schedule for the coming week in which Mr. Gingrich would visit Delaware, North Carolina and the sites of the next three primaries, on April 3: Maryland, Washington, D.C., and Wisconsin.
Not long ago, Mr. Gingrich was asked by Charlie Rose on CBS whether there were any circumstances under which he would suspend his campaign.
''Probably none,'' he said.
