Regarding the March 21 editorial "A death in Florida":
The case of TrayvonMartin's killing seems open and shut: George Zimmerman admitted the shooting and was recorded telling the police dispatcher that the person he was following was running away. Mr. Zimmerman was accordingly advised not to follow because an officer was on the way. He apparently ignored the instructions.  
Self-defense cannot possibly be claimed by a pursuer. Only the target being pursued, believed to be TrayvonMartin in this case, can make such a claim, and he's dead.
William Trolinger, Ellicott City
l
Courtland Milloy's thoughtful March 21 Metro column, "Black fathers need to take a stand against injustice," was marred by one sentiment: "Boys do not want to see their mothers struggling. It's different with fathers. Seeing a dad redress a wrong teaches the son how to stand up for himself - and his family."
First, there is no reason to think that a child is less upset by seeing his father, rather than his mother, "struggling."
Second, it was unnecessary to drag a dated stereotype into this argument and to portray fathers as a better example for boys of how to stand up for themselves and to redress wrongs. It was my mother who, by example and lesson, fought against social wrongs and taught me how to stand up to bullies. My father certainly reinforced and discussed these notions in valuable ways, but my mother was the warrior in the family. Both parents can serve as valuable role models and teachers for just about any type of life lesson.
None of this is to say that Mr. Milloy's primary point, that black fathers need to be more involved in protecting, teaching and advocating for their sons, is somehow flawed. But why try to shove mothers into a restraining stereotype along the way?
Jon Frandsen, Takoma Park
l
TrayvonMartin's death is tragic, but George Zimmerman is not the party primarily at fault. Rather, Florida's legislature and governor bear most of the responsibility. Placing concealed weapons in the hands of untrained persons outside the home and then, in effect, immunizing them from prosecution is a formula not for effective law enforcement or personal protection but, rather, for death. While I sincerely hope that Florida and other states with similar laws reexamine them, something tells me that their "Wild West" attitude toward responsible gun control, ownership and use is not likely to change anytime soon.
Bruce N. Shulman, Silver Spring
l
We must leave it up to state and federal investigators to determine whether a hate crime occurred. But even if those investigations conclude there was none, there is a term for an untrained neighborhood watch volunteer with a gun: vigilante. And that is frightening. At a minimum, prosecutors should consider whether this type of  dangerous conduct warrants criminal charges.
Michael N. Wilcove,  Rockville
