SANFORD: The Florida police chief who had been bitterly criticised for not arresting a Neighbourhood Watch volunteer in the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager temporarily stepped down yesterday, saying he had become a distraction to the investigation. 
Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee and his officers decided not to arrest George Zimmerman after he shot dead 17-year-old Trayvon Martin on February 26. Martin was returning from a trip to a convenience store when Mr Zimmerman started following him, telling police dispatchers he looked suspicious. At some point, the two got into a fight and Mr Zimmerman pulled out his gun.
Mr Zimmerman claims the shooting was self-defence. He told police Martin attacked him after he had stopped chasing the teenager and was returning to his four-wheel-drive.
The shooting has ignited racial tensions. Civil rights groups held rallies in Florida and New York, saying the shooting was unjustified.
Mr Lee said authorities were prohibited from making an arrest based on the facts and circumstances they had at the time of the shooting. He said he continued to stand behind his agency's investigation.
``As a former homicide investigator, a career law enforcement officer and a father, I am keenly aware of the emotions associated with this tragic death of a child. I'm also aware that my role as a leader of this agency has become a distraction from the investigation,'' he said.
Martin's parents said Mr Zimmerman should be taken into custody. They said Mr Zimmerman was profiling their son and acted like a vigilante.
``We want an arrest, we want a conviction and we want him sentenced for the murder of my son,'' Martin's father, Tracy, said to a crowd of about 1000 supporters in Sanford.
The protesters reacted to news of Mr Lee's decision to step aside by chanting: ``The chief is gone. Zimmerman is next.''
Some sold T-shirts that read: ``Arrest Zimmerman.''
The State Attorney's Office is reviewing the case, which will be presented to a grand jury next month.
