> DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Obama, Irish premier meet at White House
WASHINGTON (AP) -- President Obama celebrated an extended St. Patrick's Day at the White House on Tuesday with a visit from Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny, who assured Obama that his debt-ridden nation would make an economic comeback.
Speaking in the Oval Office alongside the Irish leader, Obama expressed his confidence in Kenny's government, saying he believed that it would be able "to get Ireland moving again." He said the two leaders also discussed the larger issue of European growth, which Obama said would have a positive impact on the U.S. economy. 
"Obviously for both our countries, one of the biggest priorities is getting the economy moving in the right direction and putting our people back to work," Obama said.
Kenny said that there are "signs of confidence" emerging from the Irish economy.
The Irish are struggling to reverse 14.4 percent unemployment, slow a renewed wave of emigration and rebuild a battered credit rating.
-----
> FLORIDA
Fatal shooting of teen has cellphone evidence
SANFORD, Fla. (AP) -- An unarmed black teenager shot to death by a neighborhood watch captain told his girlfriend moments before he was killed that he was being followed, a lawyer said Tuesday as federal and state prosecutors announced they would investigate.
"Oh, he's right behind me; he's right behind me again," Trayvon Martin, 17, told his girlfriend on his cellphone, the Martin family's attorney said. The girl later heard Martin say, "Why are you following me?" Another man asked, " 'What are you doing around here?' " attorney Benjamin Crump said. The phone call was disclosed as the U.S. Justice Department opened a federal civil rights probe into the Feb. 26 shooting and the local prosecutor convened a grand jury to investigate. The neighborhood watch captain, George Zimmerman, has not been charged, and said he shot Martin, who was returning to a gated community in Sanford after buying candy at a convenience store, in self-defense. At a town hall-style meeting Tuesday night, more than 350 people packed into the sanctuary of the Allen Chapel AME Church.
-----
> ARKANSAS
Airport to be renamed in honor of Clintons
WASHINGTON -- Airport officials in Little Rock, Ark., voted unanimously Tuesday to rename Little Rock National Airport in honor of former President Bill Clinton and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, a rare twin billing for the state's former first couple.
The change won't be official until the Federal Aviation Administration signs off. Adams Field, the designation for the airport's aeronautical operations, will remain the same.
"Bill and Hillary Clinton not only devoted years of service to Arkansas, but have served the nation as a two-term president, and as first lady, U.S. senator, and secretary of state -- that's a legacy of which all Arkansans can be proud," said Jim Dailey, chairman of the Little Rock Municipal Airport Commission.
"We believe renaming our airport in their honor is a fitting way to recognize their service and their position in Arkansas and our nation's history."
Bill Clinton, who served six terms as governor, released a statement saying he and his wife "are humbled" by the decision.
-- Los Angeles Times
