Several hundred people gathered Sunday afternoon for an impromptu rally -- organized via Facebook -- to reflect on the shooting death of Trayvon Martin.
The theme of the gathering at the Martin Luther King Jr. memorial statue in Denver's City Park was one of peace and community in the wake of the shooting of the African-American youth in Florida. 
"It's important that we are standing here, on what is considered hallowed ground," said Jeff Fard, known to many as "Brother Jeff," who helped organize the event.
While the violence that sparked the gathering was against a black teenager, a mix of races and religions was represented.
"How many of us will have to die before we realize our lives have value?" Fard said to the audience, circled tightly together. "People are not going to respect our lives until we respect our own."
The Community Peace Drummers began playing at 2 p.m. with five black youths wearing gray hoodies standing behind them with signs asking rhetorical questions such as "Do I look suspicious?"
Doreen Watson and Sandra Mitchell are two black women who work at Regis University.
"We always tell our students to get involved, and we were talking and decided that we needed to as well," said Watson, who teaches criminology and sociology at Regis.
"It hits really close to home, and we work with young people all the time," said Mitchell, assistant vice president of diversity at Regis and mother of a 15-year-old boy.
The interfaith and inter-race crowd emphasized the importance of sharing one's own story in order to build a longer-term understanding of "the other" groups. One of the afternoon's mottos was "Nobody's next."
"I don't know about you, but I am tired of being unified around tragedy," said Taj Ashaheed, another event organizer. "They don't know what it is like to be black, and we don't know what it's like to be them."
Martin was killed Feb. 26 in Sanford, Fla., by the neighborhood-watch captain, 28-year-old George Zimmerman, as he walked home from the store with a bag of Skittles and some iced tea, wearing a hoodie.
Gathering the oldest person in the audience, an 85-year-old, and the youngest, a 4-month-old baby, ralliers then did a "libation of Skittles" in memory of all killed by what they called senseless violence.
"It is community that will turn this around -- us coming around in unity," Fard said.
At 3 p.m., there were 17 drumbeats -- each representing a year of Martin's life -- and then a moment of silence for Martin and others killed violently.
A march is planned to leave from West 10th Avenue and Santa Fe Drive and from Sonny Lawson Park, 2301 Welton St., at 4 p.m. today and to converge at Civic Center.
Kristen Leigh Painter: 303-954-1638 or kpainter@denverpost.com
