TrayvonMartin's death may or may not have been about race. It was definitely about guns.Quick primer: On Feb. 26, Martin, a black, 17-year-old high school senior, was walking through a gated community, carrying snacks on his way to a friend's house.  
George Zimmerman, a Hispanic, 28-year-old Neighborhood Watch volunteer, shot and killed him.There were no witnesses on site. A 16-year-old girl who was on the phone with Martin before he was shot told police that Martin told her that a man was following him; she advised Martin to run. She heard a scuffle, and the call ended.When police arrived, Zimmerman, who had a bloody nose and a wound on the back of his head, invoked Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law. Like North Carolina's "Castle Doctrine," Florida's law permits the use of deadly force in defense of oneself, without fear of prosecution.North Carolina's Castle Doctrine, which became law last December, expanded the right to use deadly force beyond a person's home, to include businesses and vehicles, and added "a person is justified in the use of deadly force and does not have a duty to retreat in any place he or she has the lawful right to be if ... [h]e or she reasonably believes that such force is necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm to himself or herself or another."A lot of North Carolinians, including this editorial board, argued that these sloppily written laws attempt to circumvent basic American justice. Self-defense has been a successful defense for as long as court records have been kept; these new laws seem designed to avoid the courthouse altogether.Worse, it's not just the courthouse. These laws seem designed to relieve people from applying their own basic judgment, let along anyone else's.Zimmerman apparently thought he was one of the good guys, a white hat, but since the Stand Your Ground law might allow him to escape the scrutiny of a courtroom, how can he know?Isn't it reasonable that the fear of a deadly threat increases with the likelihood that others have the power to harm us - a possibility that increases as gun laws are relaxed? What is the goal? To spiral ever downward until everyone is armed because everyone else is armed, quick on the trigger because any confrontation could become a deadly assault?But, as seems to be the case with gun-toting Zimmerman and unarmed Martin, a person's sense of his or her own fear of threat is not the best measure of his or her actual danger.TrayvonMartin's death is a bloody illustration that these sloppy gun-rights laws are no substitute for the justice system - in Florida, in North Carolina, or anywhere else.
