Saturday March 24, 2012
PITTSFIELD -- Local residents, many in hooded sweatshirts and carrying signs, rallied Friday evening in support of TrayvonMartin, a 17-year-old Florida teenager who was gunned down by a neighborhood watch captain in February as he walked home from a convenience store.
As traffic passed around Park Square in Pittsfield, cars and trucks honked while many gave thumbs-up signs out their windows at the crowd of nearly 100 residents who held up signs that read "I am TrayvonMartin" and shouted "equality" and "justice for Trayvon." 
"I'm here to show my support for Trayvon and his family," said city resident Sherrie Bethel McGregor. "This could have been anyone's child."
The rally was one of many that have been held across the nation as anger grows at the failure of Florida authorities to charge the shooter, George Zimmerman, 28.
Zimmerman claimed self-defense in the Feb. 26 killing of Martin, who was unarmed at the time. The incident took place in a gated community in Sanford, Fla., a suburb of Orlando.
Zimmerman, on the phone with police dispatchers, told them that Martin looked suspicious. Against the dispatcher's advice, Zimmerman began following the young man who was wearing a hooded sweatshirt. After a confrontation between the two, Martin was shot and killed.
Many at Friday evening's rally wore hooded sweatshirts, popularly known as "hoodies" to express solidarity with Martin and his family. They also passed out Skittles candies and canned ice tea -- the items that Martin was carrying when he died.
Those at the Pittsfield event included the very young -- one woman had attached a sign to her baby stroller -- to the elderly.
"I feel bad," said Ajayi Jackson, a 12-year-old from Pittsfield. "The guy hasn't even been arrested yet."
Jackson said many of his friends came to the rally to show their support for Martin.
"Zimmerman should be charged with murder," said Eddie Taylor of Pittsfield, the executive director of S.E.E.D Network, the nonprofit social resource network that helped organize the event through its Facebook page.
Ty Allan Jackson, of Pittsfield, a local author who spearheaded the event, called Martin's killing "a polarizing subject."
"I knew it would be a good turnout," he said.
The event was to both bring awareness to the injustice done to TrayvonMartin, but also to injustice in general, according to Jackson.
"This is not an isolated incident, it's just a well-publicized one," he said. "Injustice is happening every day."
He also wanted the rally to provide a chance for the people of Berkshire County to know they have a voice.
"They don't have to be afraid," said Jackson. "It's a chance for them to be heard and be seen."
Melissa Hosley, also of Pittsfield, said she came to bring awareness for equality, as well as justice for Martin. But beyond that, she said, Martin's killing touches upon many other areas, including gun control.
"A lot has to do with guns," she said. "There needs to be more regulation."
Also in attendance on Friday was Berkshire County state Rep. Tricia Farley-Bouvier, D-Pittsfield.
"This is my district. I represent all these people. They are out here seeking justice in a peaceful way," she said. "I'm always willing to support that."
President Barack Obama weighed in Friday, calling the shooting death a "tragedy" and saying every aspect of the case should be investigated.
Taylor said he was happy the president was "stepping up."
"The president realizes 'but for the grace of God, goes my child,' " he said.
The Justice Department and FBI have opened a civil rights investigation, and a grand jury is set to convene April 10 to determine whether Zimmerman should be charged.
Material from The Associated Press was used in this report.
To reach Andrew Amelinckx:aamelinckx@berkshireeagle.com ,or (413) 496-6249.On Twitter: @BE_TheAmelinckx
