Whenever Norton Bonaparte encountered rough sledding during his years as Topeka's city manager, his predicaments made the local news but didn't generate too much interest outside the immediate area or Kansas. 
That's not the case in Sanford, Fla., where Bonaparte is a city manager under fire for not firing the police chief, who declined to arrest a neighborhood watch captain who fatally shot an unarmed 17-year-old black youth, TrayvonMartin.
Such is the power of social media.
The shooting occurred Feb. 26, and most of the nation was unaware of it until a couple of weeks ago when a few people put messages about the incident on Twitter and other social media websites. A syndicated radio host the next day added a few details and sent a message to his 65,000 Twitter followers and 585,000 Facebook fans.
From there, the story went viral and people across the country now know who TrayvonMartin is. They also are familiar with the names George Zimmerman, the watch captain, Bonaparte, and Bill Lee Jr., the Sanford police chief.
The Associated Press reports Martin lived in Miami but was visiting family in Sanford. He walked to a convenience store and was on his way back to the family home when he was spotted by Zimmerman, who was on patrol. The watch captain called police, who said he could stop following the youth and that they would check him out. For some reason, Zimmerman continued to follow Martin and then stopped his vehicle and approached the youth. The shooting followed a chase and fight.
Zimmerman is claiming self-defense and cites Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law, which gives people the latitude to use deadly force instead of retreating during a fight.
The Justice Department and FBI are now investigating the case and the local prosecutor has convened a grand jury to determine whether to charge Zimmerman, the son of a white man and Hispanic woman.
We'll let the federal law enforcement agencies and a grand jury sort out the facts and decide whether Zimmerman should be charged. It's not our place to decide guilt or innocence, or whether Bonaparte should fire the police chief.
Rather, we're using the case today as yet another example of the power of Twitter and other social media, which can be used for good or evil.
If the investigations determine Zimmerman crossed a line and should be charged in connection with Martin's death, certainly those first few tweets mourning his loss and asking for justice served a purpose.
Social media isn't used only for good causes, however. We've all heard stories about people whose lives were ruined - some ending in suicide - when someone posted a malicious message on one of the various social media sites.
That's the evil side of social media. They distribute false information just as rapidly and to just as many people as they do the truth.
We're going to have to live with the good and the evil, but we don't have to accept every posting at face value. It doesn't hurt to pause and think, or even do some fact checking, before sending information further along its way.
