Obama reverses his position on pipelines
President Barack Obama will direct federal agencies to fast-track an oil pipeline from Oklahoma to Texas, backing a segment of the larger Keystone XL project that he rejected earlier this year. The 485-mile line from Cushing, Okla., to refineries on Texas' Gulf coast would remove a critical bottleneck in the country's oil transportation system, as rising oil production has outgrown pipelines' capacity to deliver oil to refineries. Obama's directive, to be announced Thursday, also would apply to other pipelines that alleviate choke points. It will be issued along with an executive order requiring agencies to make faster decisions on other infrastructure projects.
GOP forces budget plan - Republicans on a key House panel Wednesday muscled through a contentious GOP budget plan to sharply cut federal health care spending and safety-net programs like food stamps as the chief means to attack trillion-dollar-plus deficits. The House Budget Committee approved the GOP plan on a near party-line 19-18 vote, readying it for a House vote next week. Two tea party favorites, Republican Reps. Tim Huelskamp of Kansas and Justin Amash of Michigan, joined Democrats in opposing the measure, saying it didn't go far enough. 
March held for teen - The parents of a black teenager shot to death by a Hispanic neighborhood watch captain in Florida marched in his memory in New York on Wednesday with hundreds of other people demanding arrests in the case. Trayvon Martin, 17, was killed Feb. 26, in Sanford, Fla. He was returning to a gated community in the city after buying candy at a convenience store. He was unarmed and was wearing a hooded sweat shirt, called a hoodie. The neighborhood watch captain, George Zimmerman, has not been charged in the shooting. On Wednesday night, demonstrators chanted "we want arrests" during the Million Hoodie March in Manhattan's Union Square.
Scientist sentenced - A former government space scientist was sentenced Wednesday to 13 years in prison for admitting that he tried to sell space and defense secrets to Israel in what turned out to be an FBI sting operation. Appearing in federal court in a prison jumpsuit, Stewart Nozette said he is "paying for a fatal lack of judgment."
Supreme Court backs property owners - The Supreme Court strengthened the rights of property owners who are confronted by federal environmental regulators, ruling Wednesday that they are entitled to a hearing to challenge the government's threats to fine them for building on their own land. The 9-0 decision is a victory for Michael and Chantell Sackett, who bought the lot near Priest Lake, Idaho, but after they had cleared the land, they were told by EPA officials they would be fined $7,500 a day until they restored it.
New York concerned over Iranians - Authorities have interviewed at least 13 people since 2005 with ties to Iran's government who were seen taking pictures of New York City landmarks, a senior New York Police Department official said. Police consider these instances to be pre-operational surveillance, bolstering their concerns that Iran or its proxy terrorist group could be prepared to strike inside the United States, if provoked by escalating tensions between the two countries.
Pesticide is pulled - A pesticide used primarily in the strawberry industry is being pulled from the U.S. market by its Japanese manufacturer, a surprising move that comes after harsh criticism from environmentalists and farm workers who claim the chemical is toxic and may cause cancer. Tokyo-based Arysta LifeScience Inc. said late Tuesday that it was immediately suspending the sales, marketing and production of all formulations of the fumigant Midas, or methyl iodide, in the U.S.
U.S. suspends search for remains - The United States said it is suspending efforts to recover remains of thousands of fallen service members in North Korea, the latest sign that a recent thaw in relations is over. The U.S. was in the process of resuming the hunt for remains missing from the 1950-53 Korean War that had been on hold since 2005, the only form of cooperation between the two militaries.
Body discovered - Authorities said they believe a body found outside Williston, N.D., is that of a missing Sidney, Mont., high school math teacher who disappeared Jan. 7 during a morning run. The remains believed to be that of Sherry Arnold are being sent to Missoula for identification. The body had been buried. Police didn't say what led them to that location.
Judge stops man on rampage - A judge in Honolulu put a man in a chokehold for jumping onto his bench and breaking a flagpole bearing the state flag, authorities said. District Judge Lono Lee knocked down Steven Michael Hauge and restrained him, turning him over to police, who arrested him.
