When are "stand your ground" gun laws a license to kill?
The fatal shooting of an unarmed black teenager by a Florida neighborhood watch leader last month sparked a national debate on self-defense laws that allow the use of deadly force. A Cleveland County civil rights leader says North Carolina's law doesn't need to be changed as long as it's applied properly.
"There's nothing wrong with the law that I can see at this point," said Willie McIntosh, president of the county's NAACP chapter. "To me, that shooting was a blatant disregard for the law." 
Titled "A Bill to Amend Various Gun Laws," N.C. General Statute 14-51.3, which took effect in December, states that a person "does not have a duty to retreat in any place he or she has the lawful right to be" and is justified in the use of deadly force if he or she reasonably believes that such force is necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm to himself or herself or another."
District Attorney Rick Shaffer said prosecutors weigh many factors when determining whether to file charges against a shooter claiming self-defense.
"First, I try to determine from available evidence whether the party claiming the right to use force was the aggressor in the situation," Shaffer wrote in an email to The Star. "If there is substantial and credible evidence the person was the aggressor, then he is not in a good position to claim he was acting in self defense."
The district attorney also takes into account the size, age and physical condition of both the aggressor and victim as well as the "availability of alternative to force," Shaffer wrote.
'Kneejerk reaction'
The General Assembly passed that statute last June in a gun law reform bill that included the Castle Doctrine, which states that lawful occupants can use deadly force against intruders in homes, businesses and vehicles. State Rep. Kelly Hastings of Cherryville, a Republican who represents parts of Cleveland and Gaston counties, was a primary sponsor.
"If you're in harm's way and you're legitimately in fear, your response has to be proportional and reasonable," Hastings said.
Another state lawmaker, Rep. Rodney Moore, D-Mecklenburg, said he wants to rewrite the state statute to prevent shooting deaths like the one in Florida from occurring in North Carolina. Hastings said tweaking the statute is unnecessary.
"I think people are having a kneejerk reaction without understanding the law," he said.
North Carolina's new statute codifies and clarifies existing case law that has been on the books for many years, said John Rubin, a professor of public law and government at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
"This statute reflects the state of the law that already existed, but makes it clearer," Rubin said. "The basic principle still remains ? a reasonable person would have to believe they're faced with death or great bodily harm."
N.C. law similar to Florida's
Neighborhood watch captain George Zimmerman shot and killed 17-year-old TrayvonMartin on Feb. 26. Martin was returning to his gated community in Sanford, Fla., from a nearby convenience store. Zimmerman told police he shot Martin in self-defense after the teen attacked him. He has not been arrested or charged in the death.
Florida's law ? which is similar to North Carolina's ? states that a resident "has no duty to retreat" from an assailant and can use deadly force if he or she reasonably believes doing so is necessary to prevent "death or great bodily harm."
Rubin said that the lack of charges against Zimmerman "raises concerns about how Florida is interpreting the law."
"The wording is similar," he said, comparing the North Carolina and Florida statutes. "I'm not sure I'd be willing to say the way we interpret it is similar."
McIntosh said the neighborhood watch captain confronted Martin and instigated the scuffle with the unarmed teen. He said Zimmerman had no reasonable belief his life was in danger and the shooting isn't justified under either Florida or North Carolina law.
"Nobody's safe if they're going to stretch the law that far," McIntosh said. "The law was not written for that reason."
A national outcry followed Martin's death, with civil rights groups staging protest rallies across the East Coast and mounting calls for the Sanford police officials who investigated the shooting to be fired. The U.S. Department of Justice is now investigating the killing.
Would Zimmerman face charges if the shooting happened here?
"It is dangerous to comment on whether a person should or should not be charged with a crime based on reports of evidence without having access to the investigative file," Shaffer wrote. "However, if it is true that the volunteer who is accused of shooting TrayvonMartin was advised not to pursue Mr. Martin, and did so anyway, had no reason to believe Mr. Martin was a threat to him at the time he pursued him and placed himself in a situation where he confronted Mr. Martin, and Martin had no weapon on his person, I see absolutely no reason that (Mr. Zimmerman) would not have been charged with at least second degree murder in North Carolina."
Reach City Editor Corey Friedman at 704-669-3331.
