When Florida's Stand Your Ground Law was debated in 2005, opponents called it The Wild West Bill, the Shoot Your Neighbor Bill and the Street Shooter Bill.
Nobody called it the Shoot Kids Walking Around Your Neighborhood Bill. That would have been alarmist.
Maybe not, it turns out. 
The facts of Trayvon Martin's death are by now familiar. George Zimmerman, 28, neighborhood watch group captain, was cruising Twin Lakes, a gated Sanford subdivision, on Feb. 26, armed with a 9mm handgun, when he spotted 17-year-old Martin, whom he deemed Very Suspicious.
Mind you, Zimmerman was not a policeman. He was not a security guard. He was not even associated with a formal Neighborhood Watch Program-affiliated group. He appears to have been a wannabe cop with too much time on his hands who had called the police 46 times in the past 14 months.
This guy looks like he's up to no good, or he's on drugs or something. It's raining and he's just walking around, looking about," Zimmerman told police as he spotted Martin.
A black youth both walking and looking at where he's walking. This is stated as though it's obviously worrisome.
In fact, Martin was merely walking home after buying Skittles and ice tea at a convenience store.
Within minutes of the call, Zimmerman had shot Martin dead.
Zimmerman was not arrested. He was not charged with a crime. Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee even appeared to place some blame on the unarmed youth.
We don't have anything to dispute his claim of self-defense," Lee said of Zimmerman at a press conference. He cited chapter and verse of Florida's Stand Your Ground Law.
So, there you have it: A vigilante shoots an unarmed kid and after questioning goes home.
He stood his ground. Move along, folks, nothing to see here.
This case has gained national notoriety because of its racially explosive nature. People can shoot black kids for walking around and then just go home? Is that the kind of place we live?
But this is no anomaly.
Under the Stand Your Ground Law, any cop-in-his-own-mind, bully, hothead, edgy racist, muddled paranoid, road-rager, gang enforcer and mean drunk can reach for a get-of-jail-free card as soon as he sticks his gun back in his waistband.
An exaggeration? Hardly.
Consider Paul Miller of Flagler Beach.
He told police last week he shot his neighbor during an argument over a barking dog. He said he felt threatened by the unarmed man.
The neighbor was found on his side of the lot line with five bullet wounds to his neck, chest and abdomen. Witnesses used adjectives like "slow" and "methodical" to describe the shots.
Miller, too, was questioned and released. He said he was standing his ground. Only later would he be charged with second-degree murder.
Think about that: We live in a place where police need a day or so to figure out if blowing away a neighbor for yelling at you might be a chargeable offense.
Add the volatile chemical of race to these kinds of charged face- offs and it seems remarkable that a case rousing the passions of the Martin shooting hadn't happened already.
But then it's the nature of tragedy for bad things to seem destined to happen.
