PUBLIC CORRUPTION
AJC deserves a hand for exposing lax ethics
Regarding "Georgia last in public corruption laws" (ajc.com, March 19), and "Lobbyist transparency? Oh yeah, that's the ticket" (Opinion, March 15), I commend the AJC news team and the editorial staff for their coverage concerning public corruption in Georgia. 
We have reached the point where we have no confidence in state government to accomplish anything well, from HOT lanes to T-SPLOST plans to tax reform.
We cannot expect a more effective government until we require an honest and ethical government.
To AJC columnist Kyle Wingfield: Please don't hesitate to name names. Keep the pressure on.
And as we approach election time, help to identify legislative candidates from both parties who will enact and enforce ethics rules. JAMES VESSER, CONYERS
ABORTION
'Pro-life' people should adopt unwanted kids
Regarding "Passing bill right thing to do" (Opinion, March 16), while I do not believe abortion is an optimal method of birth control, and Dan Becker may be correct about an unborn child's ability to feel pain at 18 weeks, he has overlooked pain of another kind: the constant pain of being an unwanted, unloved child who is abused, beaten, molested or assaulted, or scarred for life because of that kind of pain.
We have millions of children in this country in foster care and juvenile facilities --- the progeny of parents who did not want children enough to be responsible for their well-being.
Our mental health facilities and prisons are full of these children (now adults). Their quality of life means nothing to most individuals who advocate the pro-life position --- only that they are here and breathing.
Once they are here, they are someone else's responsibility. This position is socially irresponsible.
Until every proponent of the pro-life cause adopts one of these children, they have no sustainable platform. I say, put your beliefs where your rhetoric is. Then you can shout your pro-life stance to the heavens with a clear conscience. LAURA E. TAYLOR, BUFORD
FLORIDA SHOOTING
Age of harmony still elusive in America
The year is 2012. So much has changed, yet much has remained the same.
With an African-American president in the White House, one would imagine that things have changed for the better --- but is that true?
A civilian recently decided that a black teen was acting "suspiciously" and the civilian ended up shooting Trayvon Martin to death.
When will we really give up the ghost of "taking back the country" and reverting to the "good old days"?
We have come a long way --- but apparently, there is still a long way to go. DAVID CLARKE, BUFORD
