THE CAPITAL-JOURNAL
SANFORD, Fla. - Police Chief Bill Lee Jr. announced in a news conference Thursday that he would step down temporarily in the wake of a controversy over his department's handling of a fatal shooting that attracted national attention. 
The move came as pressure to fire Lee mounted on Sanford city manager Norton Bonaparte, who was Topeka's city manager until this past July.
CBS News reported Lee said that his presence had become a "distraction" that was "overshadowing the process" and that he would take a temporary leave of absence. Neither Lee nor Bonaparte took questions after the short press conference, nor did they elaborate on what "temporarily" meant.
The Sanford City Commission voted 3-2 late Tuesday to indicate it had no confidence in Lee over his handling of the Feb. 26 shooting of unarmed 17-year-old Trayvon Martin.
Martin, who is black, was shot and killed by neighborhood watch captain George Zimmerman, who has been identified in news accounts as being both "white" and "Hispanic."
Zimmerman, who hasn't been arrested, said he acted in self-defense when he used the gun he was licensed to carry to shoot Martin.
Sanford Mayor Jeff Triplett and Commissioners Velma Williams and Mark McCarty voted in the majority Tuesday while Patty Mahany and Randy Jones voted in support of Lee, 52, who became police chief last May.
Commissioners cannot fire Lee, who works at the pleasure of Sanford's city manager, Bonaparte.
The Orlando, Fla., Sentinel reported Bonaparte said he would take the commission's "strong statement" under advisement but wanted to wait for the conclusion of investigations being conducted.
The Department of Justice is investigating, and a Seminole County, Fla., grand jury will meet April 10 to hear evidence in the case.
According to MSNBC, "Williams implied that if Bonaparte doesn't fire Lee, she would review his contract the next time it comes up for renewal. She nearly fainted after the vote because she became so emotional, and had to be treated by a paramedic."
Bonaparte released a statement Monday on the city's website at http://www.sanfordfl.gov/investigation/docs/Zimmerman_Martin_shooting.pdf providing answers to some of the questions Sanford officials are being asked most frequently regarding the shooting.
Bonaparte left his job as Topeka's city manager July 1 under a severance agreement he reached with the city council. He became city manager in September of Sanford, which is about 20 miles north of Orlando and has a population of about 53,000.
