March 24--The fatal shooting of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed 17-year-old teenager, in Sanford, Fla., has reignited a fiery debate on laws across the country that allow people to use deadly force if they believe they could be killed or seriously hurt.
Martin was fatally shot Feb. 26 while walking back to his father's house after going to the convenience store to buy a bag of Skittles and a can of iced tea. George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch captain, called police to report a stranger in the gated neighborhood and said Martin looked suspicious. He followed Martin in his car, even though the police dispatcher said not to, and got out of his car. An altercation happened, and then Zimmerman shot Martin.
No one witnessed the shooting, but someone is heard screaming for help in the 911 calls. Many believe that is Martin, but Zimmerman has said he was the one screaming.
Zimmerman has not been charged because he claims self-defense. The case has been racially charged since Martin was black. Zimmerman's mother is Hispanic and his father is white. 
At the center of the debate is Florida's Stand Your Ground law, which has come under fire by critics who argue that the law, adopted in 2005, makes it too easy for people to pull the trigger instead of call police.
The law says that people who have a reasonable belief that their life is in imminent danger can use deadly force, no matter where they are, and they have no duty to see if they can escape the situation safely.
Latasha Fuller, a sophomore at Winston-Salem State University, said she is bothered by the Stand Your Ground law.
"Now you have a situation where the police should have arrested someone but did not because of what the person said to them," she said. "When it should be the case, if you shoot someone, you should be automatically brought in, you should be arrested because you're a suspect."
North Carolina doesn't have a Stand Your Ground law, but the Republican-led General Assembly did pass laws that now allow people to use deadly force if someone threatens their lives not only at home but in their car and at their workplace. And they have no duty to retreat, meaning they don't have to see if there's a safe escape route, before using deadly force.
Gov. Bev Perdue said Friday that she wants to wait until all the facts come in about the Martin case before seeing whether any changes need to be made in North Carolina's law.
Ron Wright, a professor of law at Wake Forest University, said states have three different kinds of laws when it comes to using deadly force and a duty to retreat.
The least common are states that require people to look around and see whether they can get out of a dangerous situation safety before using deadly force, he said.
North Carolina is among states that have laws based upon the Castle Doctrine, which refers to the idea that people's homes are their castles and they have the right to defend themselves if someone breaks into their homes, Wright said. Last year, North Carolina legislators approved a change that the National Rifle Association has championed that eliminates the duty to retreat under the law.
"If they come in the front door with guns blazing, you can stay in your home and fight," Wright said.
Legislators also expanded the Castle Doctrine to apply to people's cars and workplaces, he said.
"If somebody jumps into your car, you can use deadly force to protect yourself, even if you can jump out the back," Wright said.
In Florida, people have the right to use deadly force anywhere as long as they have a reasonable belief that their life is in imminent danger, he said.
The standard in these cases is whether a reasonable person would be in fear of his or her life if put in the same circumstance, according to Wright.
"It's not just on the mind of this shooter," he said. "It has to be a reasonable belief that you faced the threat of death."
Gail Neely, the assistant director of North Carolinians Against Gun Violence, said the law in North Carolina is not as strong as the Stand Your Ground law in Florida but it is just as "dangerously vague."
"You just have to have a reasonable perception that you feel fear," she said. "There's no duty to retreat. There's no second to think about if there's an alternative to pulling the trigger. It's very hard to define a reasonable feeling of fear, as we're finding out with this young man in Florida."
State Rep. Stephen LaRoque, R-Lenoir, was one of the sponsors of the new North Carolina law. He said he believes what happened in Florida was an isolated incident.
"It's tragic that something like that happened," he said. "It doesn't give me any pause for North Carolina."
He said the law is based on a basic American principle that people shouldn't have to retreat from their own property.
"There are some bad people out there and if someone is feeling threatened they have every right to protect themselves," he said.
Paul Valone, president of Grass Roots North Carolina, said that protections are built into the North Carolina and Florida laws. Zimmerman, he said, has no good case to say he acted in self-defense, considering that he pursued Martin.
"I think what's happened is that opponents of these self-defense laws think they have found a poster child to overturn laws that are working quite well in more than two dozen states," Valone said.
The North Carolina and Florida laws require that people have to have a reasonable fear either of imminent death or great bodily harm before they can use deadly force, Valone said.
Secondly, Valone said, people have no duty to retreat if they are in a place where they are lawfully allowed to be. In other words, you can't break into a house, shoot someone and then claim self-defense.
And only if the use of deadly force is deemed justified can someone be protected from criminal prosecution or a civil lawsuit, Valone said.
There is no way that Zimmerman would have been able to escape prosecution under North Carolina law, he said. And he shouldn't get away with killing Martin under Florida's law, he said.
"The moment Zimmerman chased down Martin, he lost the use of the Castle Doctrine defense," he said.
___ (c)2012 Winston-Salem Journal (Winston Salem, N.C.) Visit Winston-Salem Journal (Winston Salem, N.C.) at www2.journalnow.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
