Ever since he made "take my talents" a punch line, ever since he floundered in NBA Finals news conferences as if he were Captain Queeg, ever since he forgot about his fans and where he came from, basketball's best player has become a PR nightmare. Your mouth opens when he plays, and your mouth opens when he opens his mouth.
But LeBron James did something positive this past week with his public platform. 
Of course, the story of TrayvonMartin has become national news -- the 17-year-old African-American Florida native was wearing a hooded sweat shirt when he was approached by a man named George Zimmerman, who was a neighborhood watch volunteer. Martin was unarmed, simply walking home from a convenience store. A confrontation ensued, and Zimmerman shot Martin to death.
The killing has sparked a debate about racial profiling. So James posted a photo on his Twitter account (he has more than 4 million followers). The photo featured the Miami Heat players all wearing sweat shirt hoods over their heads. Using hashtags to provide commentary, James wrote: #WeAreTrayvonMartin #Hoodies #Stereotyped #WeWantJustice.
It was a powerful image -- celebrity sports heroes proclaiming that they are no different from those who might be stereotyped in our society.
President Barack Obama spoke out about the Martin tragedy, saying on Friday, the same day as the LeBron tweet, "I think every parent in America should be able to understand why it is absolutely imperative that we investigate every aspect of this.
"My main message is to the parents of TrayvonMartin. If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon. I think they are right to expect that all of us as Americans are going to take this with the seriousness it deserves and we're going to get to the bottom of exactly what happened."
When it comes to athletes taking a political stand, arguably none took a more powerful stand than on the stand, at the 1968 Olympics. Tommie Smith and John Carlos, U.S. Olympians, stood on the medal stand during the national anthem and punched the sky with fists covered in black gloves.
At the 2008 Olympics, I wrote an extensive feature about the "silent gesture heard around the world," as Smith described it to me.
In 1968, the world was different. As famed sociologist Harry Edwards said in that piece: "You had a country that was in turmoil. Against the background of a burgeoning civil rights movement and black power movement, it made sense to me that athletes had a role, and an obligation, to move the ball up the field."
Of course, we don't see stuff like this today. I remember during my interviews for that story, a common sentiment was that in the modern era, not only are the political issues not as boiling, but the modern athlete (the millionaire celebrity spokesperson) has too much to risk by taking a polarizing political stand.
But in a situation such as with TrayvonMartin, this gave James a chance to make a point to the masses. It was cool. It was refreshing to see an athlete of his stature try to educate, to help change America's perspective.
And social media makes it simple to spread a message. Heat teammate Dwyane Wade posted a photo on Facebook of himself in a hoodie.
"I'm a father," Wade told the South Florida Sun Sentinel. "It's support of the tragic thing that has taken place. No matter what color, race, we're all fathers. When you think about what that family's going through, it hits you hard and it hurts your heart to think about it. Just anything you can do -- obviously we can't bring him back -- but anything you can do to get behind and support is what we're doing."
Benjamin Hochman: 303-954-1294 or bhochman@denverpost.com
------------------------------------------------------------
Spotlight on ...
Rough week for NBA Coloradans
It was a tough seven days for three area products in the NBA.
First, there was the Hornets' Jason Smith (Platte Valley High School, CSU), who went all Avalanche on Blake Griffin, body-checking the all-star and thus receiving a two-game suspension.
Down in Oklahoma City, rookie Reggie Jackson (Palmer High) had been the Thunder's backup point guard until OKC acquired veteran Derek Fisher this past week.
And poor Chauncey Billups (who was averaging 15 points per game) can only sit and watch as his Clippers free fall in the Western Conference standings. Since Billups went down with his Achilles injury, the Clippers are 11-14, even losing a game to the lowly Hornets. (Hey, at least Monarch High's Louis Amundson is getting some clock for Indiana.)
As for Smith's hit, it looked terrible. Bush league. But Smith defended himself to reporters: "I think it looked a lot worse than what it was, but that's still not a play that you ever want to do to another player like that. I apologize to Blake Griffin. I didn't want to hurt him at all. I just wanted to try and cut off his lane to the basket."
For New Orleans this season, Smith has nearly doubled his scoring from last season, averaging 8.7 points per game.
Jackson averaged 3.4 points in 11.8 minutes, but Saturday he was assigned to the NBA Development League.
