March 24--Supporters of TrayvonMartin, a Florida high school student who was fatally shot, demanded justice for the 17-year-old on Saturday morning at Peninsula Park in North Portland.
"Hoodies up," a speaker shouted from a stage, prompting the crowd to flip their sweatshirt hoods over their heads.
The act of pulling over a hood has become a symbol in memory of Martin, who was wearing a hooded sweatshirt when he died Feb. 26 in Sanford, Fla. George Zimmerman, a self-appointed neighborhood watch captain, reportedly told Florida police he shot the teen out of self-defense. Zimmerman has not been arrested and is not charged with a crime. 
The case has stirred, and enraged, many across the country about race and justice. A petition to arrest and prosecute Zimmerman has drawn more than 1.7 million signatures on Change.org. Rallies have been held nationwide in Martin's honor. NBA players from the Miami Heat tweeted a photo of the team in black hooded sweatshirts, their heads bowed.
On Saturday in Portland, the crowd intermittently chanted "no justice, no peace" during a series of speeches in solidarity with the family of the slain teenager.
Mary Hill, a 31-year-old mother of five kids in Southeast Portland, was angry when she learned of Martin's death. "It was in my heart for a week," she said.
Hill and her friend Teressa Raiford, a candidate for Portland city commissioner, created a Facebook page to spread the word of Saturday's event.
"TrayvonMartin has changed my life," said Hill, who was wearing a red hooded sweatshirt. "I will never be idle again. I will never be uninvolved again. You have to speak up."
Hill and other guest speakers, speaking through a megaphone at the south end of the park, asked the community to consider how racism still exists in our society.
"We've always had the issue of racism, the fear of racists, the fear of black people," said Raiford, 41. "We just didn't have an outlet to get that discussion out. But once you understand, you no longer fear."
Many saw Martin's case as a cue to inform young African American men about the ways they could be perceived because of the color of their skin. Other speakers likened the impact and national attention of Martin's case to that of Emmett Till, a 14-year-old African American boy who was killed in Mississippi in 1955, when the American civil rights movement was just beginning.
Hill said she hopes more young men will be encouraged to pursue education. She said she recently asked a group of students, when they graduate, to consider wearing a white T-shirt that has words in remembrance of Martin, whose chance at high school graduation was cut short.
Deshawn Hardy, of Happy Valley, said he learned about the event on Facebook and came out in support of Martin's family. When Hardy was asked about the impact of Martin's case on African American young men such as his son, he said he just teaches his son the wisdom to know what's right, like anybody else. "Even though we do live in Happy Valley and not in the inner-city (of Portland), you have to stand up for what's right and be respectful," Hardy said.
Blake Dye, a supporter who stood behind the guest speakers on the stage, said a meeting has been planned on Tuesday at Self Enhancement, Inc. for African American men and boys to come together and try to figure out next steps for their community.
"It's hard to conceptualize this case," Dye said. "We hope to generate conversations about what we tell our children." The meeting starts at 6 p.m. and is open to the general public, he said.
Fred Bryant, father of 25-year-old Keaton Otis who was shot and killed by Portland police last May, said he understood the pain of Martin's family. Bryant wore a bag of Skittles around his neck to symbolize one of the few items Martin had on him when he died. Bryant was upset with "the justification of taking our young people."
Martin's death is an example of an issue that has touched and drawn people from all different communities, regardless of race, said Rev. LeRoy Haynes, of the Albina Ministerial Alliance.
"It's up to the people who love justice, equity and freedom to say we're not going to back down and accept racial discrimination and injustice," Haynes said. "We hope that we can also put this energy in a constructive manner of our Portland Police Bureau and our Portland community."
-- Dominique Fong
___ (c)2012 The Oregonian (Portland, Ore.) Visit The Oregonian (Portland, Ore.) at www.oregonian.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
