Barack Obama has made his first public remarks on the killing of TrayvonMartin, saying that the Florida teenager's death was a tragedy that needed to be fully investigated.
In a personal message delivered from the White House, the US president likened the 17-year-old to his own children, and said: "If I had a son, he would look like Trayvon".
Obama vowed that authorities would look into "every aspect" of the shooting of the unarmed black teenager by neighbourhood watch captain George Zimmerman, and called on federal, state and local authorities to work together as part of the investigation. The justice department and the FBI are investigating the case. 
Martin was killed on 26 February in a gated community in Sanford, Florida. He was returning to his father's girlfriend's house after buying sweets at a convenience store.
Although Zimmerman admits he shot the teenager, he says it was in self-defence during a confrontation, citing Florida's controversial "stand your ground" law that allows the use of lethal force in certain circumstances. Zimmerman has not been arrested, sparking growing anger that has spread beyond Florida.
"Obviously this is a tragedy. I can only imagine what these parents are going through," Obama told reporters.
"When I think about this boy, I think about my own kids, and I think every parent in America should be able to understand why it is absolutely imperative that we investigate every aspect of this."
Obama said that all of America had some "soul searching" to do over the incident, adding: "If I had a son he, would look like Trayvon and I think they (his parents) are right to expect that all of us as Americans are going to take this with the seriousness it deserves."
Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney later joined the president in calling for a thorough investigation. He added that a full inquiry was needed so that "justice is carried out with impartiality and integrity".
The case has sparked a fierce debate over whether there was a racial element to the shooting - Zimmerman is Hispanic - and if America's gun legislation should be changed, in particular the Florida "stand your ground" law.
The state's law was changed in 2005. Under the previous legislation, people could use deadly force in self-defence only if they had tried to run away or otherwise avoid the danger.
Under the new law, there is no duty to retreat, and it gives a Floridian the right "to stand his or her ground and meet force with force, including deadly force," if he or she feels threatened.
Sanford's police chief Bill Lee stepped down temporarily this week. The announcement was followed by news that Florida state attorney Norman Wolfinger had also recused himself following criticism of his handling of the case. But neither move appeared to soothe the growing discontent or quieten calls for Zimmerman to be arrested.
On Thursday night, the 17-year-old's parents, Tracy Martin and Sybrina Fulton, were joined by civil rights leaders including the Rev Al Sharpton at a rally in Sanford.
Sharpton told those gathered: "We cannot allow a precedent when a man can just kill one of us and then walk out with the murder weapon. We want George Zimmerman in court with handcuffs behind his back."
"Trayvon is your son," said an emotional Fulton, Trayvon's mother. "I just want to say thank you for all of your support. It means a lot to me and my family."
Captions:
Thousands of protesters gathered for a rally in Sanford, Florida, on Thursday
