State Attorney Angela Corey of Jacksonville will take over the investigation into the shooting death in Sanford of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, Gov. Rick Scott's office announced Thursday night.
According to a news release by Scott's office, the governor and state Attorney General Pam Bondi asked State Attorney Norman Wolfinger to step aside in favor of Corey.
"I believe Gov. Scott is very comfortable with the level of homicide prosecution that I have done myself," Corey said, "and he knows that we handle a lot of homicides and a lot of issues with justifiable use of deadly force." 
Wolfinger cited his reason for stepping down from the investigation as arising from a "conflict of interest," which Corey said is common and can come from a variety of circumstances.
Corey said she has assigned two of her top prosecutors, Bernie de la Rionda and John Guy, to conduct the investigation along with one of her most experienced investigators. The team is traveling to Sanford today.
De la Rionda said he would not speculate on his plans in the investigation, particularly in regard to Wolfinger's decision to have a grand jury review the case.
"I don't think it's appropriate for us to comment about the facts until we know the facts," he said.
Corey said she has so far spoken only to the governor, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the attorney general but has not yet spoken to Wolfinger or any other authorities in Sanford.
"All cases where self defense is claimed are a challenge, Corey said. " ... Anytime there's remotely a possibility of any affirmative defense in a homicide case, we like to get right on top of it."
Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee temporarily stepped down Thursday, saying he had become a distraction to the investigation. Lee has been heavily criticized after his officers decided not to arrest George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer who shot the unarmed black teen to death on Feb. 26.
Scott also asked Lt. Gov. Jennifer Carroll to head a task force that will review the state's "Stand Your Ground" law.
The task force, Scott said in a statement, "will thoroughly review Florida's 'Stand Your Ground' law and any other laws, rules, regulations or programs that relate to public safety and citizen protection."
"As law enforcement investigates the death of TrayvonMartin, Floridians and others around the country have rightly recognized this as a terrible tragedy," Scott said.
On Wednesday, a Miami-Dade judge cited the "Stand Your Ground" law in tossing out the case of a man who chased down a suspected burglar and stabbed him to death.
Lee's decision to step down temporarily came less than a day after city commissioners gave him a "no confidence" vote, and after a couple of weeks of protests and uproar on social media websites. Lee has said evidence in the case supported Zimmerman's claim that the Feb. 26 shooting of Martin was self-defense.
"I do this in the hopes of restoring some semblance of calm to a city which has been in turmoil for several weeks," Lee said.
Martin was returning from a trip to a convenience store when Zimmerman started following him, telling police dispatchers he looked suspicious. At some point, the two got into a fight and Zimmerman pulled out his gun.
Zimmerman told police Martin attacked him after he had given up on chasing the teenager and was returning to his sport utility vehicle.
The shooting ignited racial tensions in the town near Orlando. Civil rights groups have held rallies in Florida and New York, saying the shooting was unjustified.
It wasn't clear how long the police chief would step aside.
Times-Union writer Charles Broward contributed to this report, which also includes information from The Associated Press
