The meltdown in Durham's back yard
Over the last decade in the United States we have seen more natural disasters occur more frequently and intensely, due to climate change.
Steps need to be taken to prevent a catastrophe in our own back yards. It's interesting to me that newspapers will publish daily crime logs, but rarely do you see reports of emergency reactor shutdowns, which do occur, and/or the reasons for it. The public has a right to be informed on these matters.
According to Wikipedia, "In 2010, Project Censored, a non-profit, investigative journalism project, ranked the safety issues at Shearon Harris the fourth most underreported story of the year, because of the risk of fires at what are the largest spent fuel pools in the country." 
The next time you see a police officer, or you have an opportunity to chat with your local politician, ask them what the nuclear reactor emergency plans are if we have an accident in our own backyard. I believe that question will be met by a blank stare.
Karen Meilleur
Durham
TrayvonMartin and bias in prosecution
The tragic story of TrayvonMartin's death while walking black offers a vivid picture of how justice often works in this country. You might rightly question why the prisons are filled with black and Hispanic inmates to a degree far out of proportion to their criminality compared to Caucasian offenders. This story offers a peek into how that system works.
No one can argue that, if Martin had shot the white guy while claiming self defense, he would not have been immediately charged and jailed. The two major factors in play in this story are white fear of black folks and laws that make it easy and quite justified in a lot of people's minds to shoot someone if you "feel threatened."
Structured sentencing was designed to give judges little leeway in handing sentencing, in the hopes of taking bias out of the equation. Studies show that, statistically, minorities get the longest sentences allowed, while whites get the shortest. That begs the question as to who gets prosecuted. Prosecutors realize it is easier to get convictions of blacks and Hispanics due to built in jury biases.
Like Tracy Cline, they often make up their minds as to guilt and ignore any contrary information. Prosecutors can hold poor people (mostly minorities) indefinitely by setting a bond so high they can't get out. They then offer a plea bargain to simply get out of jail. Only 5 percent of criminal charges are actually tried. Martin' death is a sad statement of that bias.
Larry Bumgardner
Durham
Republicans debate the marriage amendment
I was proud to be a Durham Republican at our convention last Saturday when we debated the marriage amendment.
Ask yourself, has any other group actually asked its members to decide how they stand on this issue, other than Durham Republicans? We debated a resolution supporting the amendment and did not end debate until everyone in opposition had a chance to speak.
We heard pro arguments based on popular sovereignty and on traditional values, and con argument based on minority rights and on libertarian values.
It doesn't matter so much how the final vote came out (pro Amendment) as that Republicans honor the divide on this issue and are willing to hear different opinions. Do you see the opponents of the amendment willing to tolerate differing views?
So when you consider your vote on this amendment, remember that one side cherishes many voices while one side tries to use shaming tactics to suppress political differences. Who do you think best represents your values?
Dick Ford
Durham
see letters/page a7
Surprised to agree with Pitts
I rarely agree with columnist Leonard Pitts about anything, but he has a point with his column on the shooting of TrayvonMartin in Florida.
So far, the evidence indicates that he left his father's house to buy snacks. An overzealous neighborhood watch captain apparently followed him and started a confrontation which resulted in the young man's death.
I have long advocated the right of citizens to keep and bear arms, even to use them in their defense. That will never change. Our founding fathers were wise to include the Second Amendment in the Constitution.
However; the right to bear arms is not a license to stalk, harass or kill a person that is doing nothing wrong. Seemingly, the block captain was far too aggressive. The police had told him to stay in his vehicle but he followed him, got out and provoked a confrontation.
How many of us would appreciate being followed as we walked home and were doing nothing wrong? Black kids wearing hoods are suspicious? Not hardly. Black and white kids with hoods walk by my house every day and have never bothered me.
Based on what is known so far, I cannot believe the police did not arrest this man.
David M. Russell
Durham
And we are pleased to oblige you
I must seize upon the opportunity to thank The Herald-Sun for once again making the most of our rather limited entertainment budget. For only the cost of a subscription, we are regularly offered the remarkable comedic stylings of John Hood and his Right-Wing Reactionary Tour.
His latest (March 18) article was priceless. In it, he offered yet another riotous defense of the indefensible supply-side economic model that has been widely credited with being a major cause of our current economic woes. Undeterred, Hood dove right back into the murky morass of that failed theory. His only misstep was to not accurately label his diatribe a whimsical send-up of what is popularly known as "trickle-down" economics. Such a mythology and sleight of hand didn't work 30 years ago when Hood's autocratic progenitors foisted that model upon the nation and it will not work today. But God love the man for rolling out one of the classic absurdist routines of our age yet again for the amusement of all in our community.
Whether it be the clever and incisive humor of Gary Trudeau or the much more simple-minded but nonetheless funny ramblings of John Hood, The Herald-Sun editorial page is always appreciated in our home.
Doug Roach
Durham
