March 23--Standing in a circle around a campus fountain, Virginia State University students sang "We Shall Overcome" at a rally Thursday for slain Florida teenager TrayvonMartin.
It is haunting to hear teens sing a protest anthem their grandparents sang 50 years ago, hopeful their grandchildren never would have occasion to repeat its heartbreaking chorus:
We are not afraid 
We are not afraid
We are not afraid some day
Martin, 17, was afraid as he was followed by a stranger in an SUV in a gated community of Sanford, Fla., on Feb. 26.
He had set off on foot from the house of his father's fiancee for a nearby convenience store. Heading back with a bottle of tea and a bag of Skittles, he was spotted by an overzealous neighborhood watch volunteer.
George Zimmerman, who grew up in Prince William County, deemed the black youth in the hoodie suspicious, followed him against the advice of a 911 dispatcher (and neighborhood watch protocol) and ultimately shot him in the chest.
Zimmerman -- citing fear of an unarmed youth he reportedly outweighed by 110 pounds -- claimed self-defense and was released without charges by Sanford police. Nearly six decades after the slaying of 14-year-old Emmett Till, an act of inexplicable brutality against an African-American teenager has been carried out with impunity, to the horror of a nation.
"Somebody said that history repeats itself," said rally organizer Ylyahkim Yisrayl. "But I disagree with that, because history never left."
That history -- including lingering concerns about the fairness of the criminal justice system, the value of black life vs. white life, and the gun lobby's pervasive influence over public policy -- was exposed like an unhealed wound in the aftermath of Martin's death.
Prosecuting Zimmerman will not be easy because of Martin's inability to tell his version of events and Florida's ill-advised Stand Your Ground law. Adopted in 2005, it says that a person who reasonably believes deadly force is necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm has no duty to retreat from a confrontation outside the home.
Besides Florida, 24 states have similar laws. Oddly, gun-happy Virginia is not one of them.
Inside one's home, Virginia is "a no-retreat jurisdiction by case law, but not by statute," said Josh Horwitz, executive director of the Washington-based Coalition to Stop Gun Violence.
In early March, Republicans in the House of Delegates killed "castle doctrine" legislation that would have allowed home occupants to use lethal force against intruders without threat of criminal charges, even though the bill had cleared both chambers.
Democrats, and some Republicans, objected to the legislation, arguing it could be used to justify wrongful killings. Ironically, opponents of the bill included members of the gun lobby, who feared the legislation unintentionally would weaken the self-defense status quo.
In addition to the morning rally at VSU, a candlelight vigil was held in Richmond on Thursday evening at what is believed to be the site of a burial ground for free and enslaved black people.
Tiamba Wilkerson of the Defenders for Freedom, Justice & Equality suggested the vigil's location, a parking lot until its reclamation last year.
"One of the big issues in the TrayvonMartin case, in my opinion, is related to the idea that black lives don't have any value," she said. "So anything that happens to us isn't taken seriously. You get the sense no one really cares. That was one of the big issues around reclaiming the burial ground -- reaffirming the humanity. I felt like there was a connection there in those struggles in that way."
"It just seemed like a very good place," said Defender Ana Edwards. "It is a focal point for talking about historical issues in the black community in Richmond -- one of them being empowerment.
"If the murder of TrayvonMartin does anything, it once again reinforces the feeling of powerlessness we have over our children."
mwilliams@timesdispatch.com (804) 649-6815
___ (c)2012 the Richmond Times-Dispatch (Richmond, Va.) Visit the Richmond Times-Dispatch (Richmond, Va.) at www.timesdispatch.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
