WASHINGTON The nation's difficult history with race relations has been central to the narrative of Barack Obama's rise to the presidency and has often complicated the ways in which he deals with the issue both as a candidate and as president.
But the president's decision Friday to assertively insert himself into the controversy surrounding the fatal shooting of TrayvonMartin, a black Florida 17-year-old, is evidence of Obama's evolution and rising comfort level in dealing with the matter of race. 
The new approach is at once deeply personal and completely universal, and avoids taking sides in a political fight. His appeal Friday was to the parents.
"I can only imagine what these parents are going through," he said. "And I think every parent in America should be able to understand why it is absolutely imperative that we investigate every aspect of this, and that everybody pulls together -- federal, state and local -- to figure out exactly how this tragedy happened."
Embedded in his remarks in the Rose Garden was a particular message about being a black parent.
"If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon," Obama said. "When I think about this boy, I think about my own kids."
Questions expected
White House officials almost certainly knew Obama would be asked about the Martin shooting soon. The case has stirred immense passion nationwide because of its racial element: Martin was killed by George Zimmerman, 28, a Latino neighborhood-watch volunteer, who claimed self-defense. Zimmerman has not been charged in the shooting.
Obama did not deal with the details of the incident. He discussed the racially charged incident without saying the words "black" or "race."
His remarks followed the announcement of his pick to lead the World Bank, not a time when he usually takes questions, but clearly he was ready for one. It was not certain earlier that Obama would get involved in the controversy. It is the kind of issue that Obama and his aides have bungled in the past. But on Friday, even Republicans running for president followed him into the issue, echoing his call for a full investigation into the case.
White House aides had said repeatedly that they had no comment, calling it a local issue that needed to work its way through the courts. When the Justice Department opened a federal investigation into the case Monday night, senior White House officials kept quiet.
But all the while, according to White House press secretary Jay Carney, Obama was reading news stories about the case. Top Justice Department officials had informed White House aides in recent days that it wasn't improper for the president to speak out about the ongoing investigation into Martin's shooting, according to a government official with knowledge of those conversations.
Urged by Sharpton
The Rev. Al Sharpton, an Obama ally who led a rally attended by thousands Thursday at a park in Sanford, Fla., the city where Martin was killed, said he thought it was important for the president to comment.
"It really brings home to people that this kid is not some potential thug in a hoodie," said Sharpton, who said he had been in touch with the Justice Department but not Obama in recent days.
Benjamin Crump, the attorney for Martin's parents, Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, described his clients as humbled by Obama's comments. "How can we thank him?" Crump said they wanted to know.
Obama's comments and his approach to the Florida shooting contrasted from his handling of a similarly racially charged issue early in his administration: the arrest by a white police officer of his friend and Harvard scholar Henry Louis Gates Jr., who is black.
Asked at a news conference in 2009 about the incident, Obama said police had "acted stupidly" in arresting Gates. His remarks created a political furor.
Calling Obama's response to the Gates arrest "a disaster for the president" because he passed judgment on what had happened, Ari Fleischer, who served as press secretary for President George W. Bush, said Obama's message Friday was a welcome contrast.
"There really is an issue of whether if you are black in America today, if you are dressed the way you are dressed, that that can make you a victim," Fleischer said. "These are society's most delicate issues, and I thought the president handled it delicately."
