TrayvonMartin
Dear Editor: Americans are rightfully outraged and demanding justice for TrayvonMartin, the 17-year old boy shot and killed by a self-appointed neighborhood watchman, George Zimmerman. All the evidence that has surfaced thus far, including the recording of the police dispatcher who specifically forbade Zimmerman from taking the law into his own hands, points to a hate crime. Martin was not armed but merely returning home clutching a snack. It is incomprehensible how the slaying of Martin could be defended by the Sanford Police Department and smacks of blatant racism.
Martin's cold-blooded killing must not go unpunished; otherwise it will send a green light to copycat criminals to act with complete immunity. 
The enactment of the "stand your ground," shoot-first law in Florida and other states will turn our nation into gun-toting Charlie Bronsons bent on seeking instant justice down the barrel of a gun. This law provides complete protection to vigilantes wanting to settle scores, and is another example of the power of the National Rifle Association -- aided by its political lackeys -- whose only interest is to maximize its profits to the detriment of our society.
This insane law defies several hundred years of common-law precedents and must be repealed.
Tejinder Uberoi,
Los Altos
Have-nots have the power
Dear Editor: President Barack Obama's claims that his past actions rescued the economy are just as baseless as Mitt Romney's promises that lowering taxes on the rich will lead to employment and prosperity for all. Nobody believes either of them. We essentially have a race between two witch doctors attempting to conjure rain with nothing more than elaborate rain dances and veiled incitement to class hatred.
Just as Romney seems to be tongue-tied when it comes to explaining why it is "fair" to tax capital gains at only 15 percent, so is Obama when it comes to explaining why it is "fair" to tax those who make more than $250,000 as the universal solution for all our income needs.
The simple fact is that the balance of power in the U.S. has already tilted in favor of the have-nots, of those who have no considerable savings or assets and therefore have not much at stake if the taxes rise or if the currency falls. Those who have something to lose and thus worry about our future fiscal solvency are already in a minority and tied in religious knots by the likes of Rick Santorum or savant idiots like Newt Gingrich. Our near future is clear: Miserable benefits for all, as our much-reviled golden goose will be plucked by the have-nots within an inch of its life, and then some.
Virgil Stevens,
San Carlos
Afghan reparations
Dear Editor: It is outrageous that the United States is paying $50,000 for each Afghan killed and $11,000 for each person wounded in the shooting rampage earlier this month. Instead, they should be paying us for each person murdered and wounded in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and if they are unhappy with us being in their country, then don't attack us and not expect us to unleash a big can of American retaliation. To any Arab leaders unhappy with the turmoil unleashed due to the actions of their own people, clean up your own act and get your own citizens in line.
Scott Simmons,
Portola Valley
Health care mandates
Dear Editor: Mandate or not to mandate, that is the health care question of the week. Are we losing our freedoms, as the conservatives claim, or are we just fixing a societal problem with the best tools available? You can try to comprehend the legalese by watching C-SPAN or you can rely on a fairly simple approach.
I look at the reality, which is that someone in need of serious medical care cannot be turned away from a hospital emergency room. The Islamo, Judeo, Christian background of our culture mandates that these needs be met. That resolves the question nicely as far as I can see. The mandate already exists. Now it is only a question of reasonable payment and how to collect it. Requiring all citizens to provide for a payment mechanism for themselves and their dependants seems hardly a stretch, as our nation has already mandated the delivery of health care. There, that wasn't so hard. Was it?
Mike Caggiano,
San Mateo
