Something happened at the very cusp of 2003-04 that made me laugh. Made me laugh because my own soft-hearted liberalism is so exquisitely calibrated that when people a tad more liberal than me are discomfited, I rather enjoy it. That new year the Today programme, suffering from a hernia of self-importance, was announcing the results of a special intervention into the world of politics. It was polling listeners on legislation that they wanted to see introduced, with the promise that the winning proposal would be championed by a tame MP, with an eye to being introduced as a Private Member's Bill.
I knew - I just knew - what they were hoping for. Something like the impeachment of T. Blair for crimes to do with Iraq. What they got was something else entirely - a plan to allow homeowners "to use any means to defend their home from intruders" - or a "Tony Martin law", named after the farmer who in 1999 had shot a retreating teenage burglar dead at his home and had gone to prison for it. 
The subsequent BBC wriggling was droll, but the background swell wasn't. The demand for, in effect, a right to kill intruders, was gaining popularity. "This is wrong, heinously wrong," Mr Martin himself said, "that you should actually live in fear in your home that if somebody breaks in that, basically, you are going to have the law jump down on you." The sharp-eyed may notice a small detail about shooting people left out of that sentence, but Mr Martin's supporters were many, especially on what one might call the populist right.
The farmer's cause was taken up by MPs, newspapers and even by the National Rifle Association of America, which was campaigning for some similar changes in various American states. As Marion Hammer, the NRA president, put it: "You can't expect a victim to wait and ask, 'Excuse me, Mr. Criminal, are you going to rape me and kill me, or are you just going to beat me up and steal my television?' " Soft-heartedness is all right as a trait, but it is no guide to policy. As Professor Steven Pinker has recently argued, it's possible that - just as the Right said at the time - extreme scepticism in the 1960s about obeying the law and respecting society was partly responsible for a rapid deterioration in American and European crime rates. Among the policies that helped to reverse this deterioration were so-called "zero tolerance" attacks on antisocial behaviour and, yes, the imprisoning of more criminals. The irony of these successes, of course, was that right-wing populists could never acknowledge them. They pushed for more, and in some places they got it. So where did it lead? They led, as it happens, to Florida and the death on February 26 of TrayvonMartin. The facts of the case, as we now understand them, are essentially these. Trayvon, a boy aged 17, walking down the street in a housing estate, through which he is taking a short cut from a local shop, holding his phone and a packet of Skittles, finds himself being shadowed by a man in a car. After a while this driver, a complete stranger, stops the car, gets out, accosts the boy, produces a gun and shoots him dead.
If this were to happen in Britain the gunman would be arrested, interrogated and, when it was discovered that his victim was completely unarmed, would probably be charged by the police with murder or manslaughter. But this was Florida. And the reason why the shooter, a man called George Zimmerman, was not arrested or charged or anything, was something called the Stand Your Ground law, passed in 2005 after lobbying from the NRA.
I'll keep this simple. In Britain we require that people do their best to avoid getting into situations where they end up killing other people, even if those others may be badmashes. In public places this means we should try and retreat, if we can, and ask the authorities to take over. What Stand Your Ground did was to loosen restrictions on killing intruders in your own home, get rid of the duty to retreat in public places and give immunity to those using self-defence. After Florida passed this very popular Act in 2005, several other states followed suit and yet others are considering it.
Mr Zimmerman, aged 28, was a "watch captain" for the local Neighbourhood Watch. Given that his way of captaining was to drive around the gated community in the town of Sanford looking for baddies while toting a gun, it doesn't seem unfair to call him a vigilante, albeit a vigilante that a neighbour has described as a "congenial, amiable, admirable person".
The same neighbour claimed that there had, in the previous 15 months, been eight burglaries in the area carried out by "black youths". And TrayvonMartin was a black youth, with his hood up and moving quickly through the rain. From his car Mr Zimmerman called 911 and spoke to a police dispatcher. "This guy looks like he's up to no good," he is recorded as saying, "or he's on drugs or something. He's got his hand in his waistband ... and he's a black male." At this point the police advised Mr Zimmerman not to get out of his car, and they would take over. Mr Zimmerman, who had called 911 nearly 50 times in the previous year, replied: "They always get away." And got out of his car.
No one saw the struggle, but they heard it. A 911 call from a neighbour captures a voice saying pleadingly: "No, no!" Then Trayvon was shot dead. Mr Zimmerman now claims that the killing was self-defence and the police say that they don't have sufficient evidence to gainsay this claim and to arrest him. It is hard to escape the conclusion that Trayvon was murdered for having been a black boy in the wrong place - and where have we heard that before? This is almost exactly what those worried about a Tony Martin law thought would happen. And it hasn't just happened once. Figures from the Florida Department of Law Enforcement show what has happened to the numbers of claims of "justifiable homicide" since 2005. Before that year and in 2006 they were steady in the 30s. In 2007 they soared to 102 and have stayed at that much higher level. The law is protecting those who have killed when other possibilities were almost certainly available.
I have had painful argumentative encounters with populists over issues such as immigration and Europe, and worried that policy might one day be determined by "gut feelings", tabloid headlines and easy applause on a phone-in. Fortunately the British tend to emote one way and decide another. Even if they hold prejudices, they know - as TrayvonMartin's family has found out - that it's best not to act on them.
Here the gunman would probably have been charged by police
