March 24--DALLAS, Texas -- About 100 people showed up at rally in front of Dallas City Hall Saturday evening demanding justice for Trayvon Martin.
Aside from the outrage over the killing of the unarmed teen, people are questioning why George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer and the man accused of killing martin, was armed to begin with. 
"You're setting yourself up for failure if you're confronting someone if you don't know if they are armed, unarmed and you have a gun and are prepared to shoot them", said Samantha Jackson.
Zimmerman is accused of following martin even after a 911 operator tells him not to.
"The point is watch, neighborhood watch -- not neighborhood approach, neighborhood question. So if I see someone suspicious, I'm going to pass it on to the police. I'm not going to take it upon myself to confront the person", said Jessica Guilbeaux.
In Forney, the case is being followed by many of the people who live here.
"There should have been something else that was done. And not a child who's young and doing nothing getting killed or hurt. i think it's ridiculous", said Forney resident Karla Bowden.
Forney has an active neighborhood watch with several volunteers. Bowden believes they should have some means of protection.
"I don't think that they should have guns but I think they should be armed with something to where they would be able to have a response to somebody if somebody came up and they were armed or if they were trying to hurt them", she said.
Watch volunteers in Forney are not allowed to carry weapons while on patrol even if they have a concealed hand gun license.
"The biggest issue we would have is we don't want law enforcement being handled by those that aren't trained to do it", said Forney City Manager Brian Brooks.
Volunteers are given radios to call in any suspicious activity to police.
"We have a trained and capable law enforcement community and our officers are best able to handle it", Brooks said.
___ (c)2012 KDAF-TV (Dallas) Visit KDAF-TV (Dallas) at www.the33tv.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
