DURHAM The Durham Branch of the NAACP celebrated the 95th anniversary of its founding Sunday, and speakers at the event honored past leaders and addressed issues of importance to the organization during this election year - public education, health care, equality of opportunity and the preservation of voting rights.At the ceremony at Markham Chapel Missionary Baptist Church, Roland Staton, first vice president of the Durham NAACP, discussed the strategy that the national organization is pursuing this year. That strategy emphasizes economic sustainability and opportunity; high-quality, free public education; health care for all; equitable dispensation of justice; and equal voting rights."Job one," Staton said, is to "take advantage of our right to vote." He reminded members of the audience that President Obama won North Carolina by about 14,000 votes when some 400,000 registered voters did not cast ballots.The anniversary comes at a time when some ask about the continued relevance of the country's most recognized civil rights organization, which won landmark Supreme Court decisions regarding school integration and voting rights. Staton read off a litany of conveniences that were not around in 1917. "There are a few things we did have 95 years ago.  
We had racism 95 years ago. We had hatred 95 years ago. We had intolerance 95 years ago," he said. "So long as these things exist, there is relevance to the NAACP," Staton said.See NAACP/page A2The killing of African-American teenager Trayvon Martin of Florida by a Neighborhood Watch commander, which has galvanized outrage nationally, was mentioned during the ceremony. The church's male chorus sang two songs that brought many parishioners to their feet. During an introduction to one of the tunes, one of the vocalists spoke of "that young man that lost his life so unjustly." Staton, referring to Martin, said the outrage over the case was justified, but he read a statistic that in 2008 and 2009 about 45 percent of men who were murdered were African-American, and most of them were killed by people who looked like them. Staton asked the NAACP to marshal its resources against this "self-genocide."Many of the charter members of the Durham Branch are important figures in the history of the city. Among them were E.R. Merrick, Julia Warren, S.L. Warren, W.D. Hill and others. Deborah Giles and Mary Flores of the Durham Branch lit a ceremonial candle in honor of the charter members, and read their names.Terry Allebaugh, chairman of the local NAACP's housing committee, gave a brief history of the organization. Among the organization's notable achievements was formation in 1958 of its Youth Council Branch, which led the sit-in of the Royal Ice Cream Parlor. "For those who have come before, we honor you," Allebaugh said. "We honor your memory, even as we turn our eyes to the work to be done."The Rev. Richard McMillan, pastor of Markham Chapel Missionary Baptist Church, gave a rousing sermon on the relationship between the church and the NAACP. He based his sermon on the chapter in the Book of Exodus in which Moses is called upon to lead the Hebrews out of bondage. Moses, McMillan said, "was called to do a job." Like Moses, McMillan told members of the Durham branch, "you are on a mission," to bring fairness and to right injustices, he said.In the biblical story, Moses leads his people away from Pharaoh's oppression. But Pharaoh "is still here," McMillan said. "I'm talking about Pharaohs who want to keep people under foot."McMillan took issue with the policies of the Republicans in the current Congress. "I can tell you it's no time to be quiet now ... and let mean and evil people tell us where we can and cannot go, and who we can and cannot be," he said. "While we are sleeping, the Republicans are getting themselves together."He also stresses the need for health care for all, and took a shot at growing income inequality. McMillan said he was tired of leaders "expecting the working people to eat out of pork and bean cans, while the rich throw away food."About President Obama's re-election campaign, McMillan said, "I believe we should give him another chance"He urged the audience to emulate Moses and take on the job of registering voters. "I don't believe [God] brought me this far to leave me," he said.
