John Richmond, and Allegra Hernandez continue to reach out to other students across the nation in their efforts to channel a united voice for youth to be heard. Richmond is president of the Deming High School Youth Council and Hernandez is president-elect for the local group. 
A recent trip to Washington D.C. for the National League of Cities Conference helped them understand that violence among young black males is a national issue.
"Our main focus in the discussion was to come back to our communities and try to find ways to resolve some of these issues," Richmond said.
One such issue is racial profiling which has recently gained national attention in Trayvon Martin case. Martin was a young 17-year-old African-American high school student that was shot and killed on Feb. 26 by a neighborhood watchman in Sanford Florida.
DHS Youth Council is an advisory group made up of high school students formed by City of Deming Mayor Andres Silva. The Deming Youth Council has been the model for other advisory groups throughout the state.
It gives youth a voice in their communities through offering input, suggestions and recommendations to issues that may effect youth.
"We networked with youth from around the United States," Richmond said of the two-day conference.
A second two-day conference was held where youth discussed general issues on each of their perspective communities.
While in D.C., Richmond and Hernandez met with US Senator Tom Udall and US Senator Jeff Bngaman's staff members to discuss issues relating to students that come from Palomas, Chihuahua, Mexico to attend the schools in the Deming Public School District.
According to Richmond, Palomas students are not being processed in a timely fashion through the US Customs Port of Entry in order to meet their scheduled school buses on time.
Approximately 500 students cross the border from Palomas to Columbus, New Mexico - five miles north - in order to catch the bus to attend Deming schools, 30 miles further north.
A number of students miss their bus to school and some choose to return home instead of taking public transportation to school that is available.
Students, teachers and senior citizens do receive a reduced rate to ride public transportation.
Udall and Bingaman's staff will soon be in touch with the Deming Public School District, the US Port of Entry and the City of Deming to see what needs to be done to resolve this on-going issue.
The Deming Youth Council will meet today with the school district to address the Palomas bus issues facing students that travel from Mexico.
