BARACK OBAMA earned both praise and criticism on Friday for his careful intervention in the case of an unarmed black youth whose killing last month sparked a bitter debate that has once again exposed the racial fault lines in American society. 
TrayvonMartin, a 17-year-old Florida high school student, was shot by George Zimmerman, a white man who had volunteered for a neighbourhood watch patrol.
The case has inflamed African-American activists and presented Obama with a challenge that underlines how little his historic presidency has changed the suspicions and antagonism between American blacks and other ethnic groups.
Zimmerman, the 28-year-old son of a white father and a Hispanic mother, was reported yesterday to be in hiding after receiving death threats. The local police chief, who initially declined to charge Zimmerman with any crime, has "temporarily" stepped aside.
After an initial reluctance to intervene, Obama struck an intensely personal note on Friday when he urged a comprehensive investigation of the circumstances of Martin's death, and added: "If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon."
Some of the president's right-wing rivals accused him of striking a note of racial divisiveness when it was not clear why Martin was shot. Zimmerman's father has said his son is not a racist, and his lawyer claimed the volunteer acted in self-defence after being threatened by Martin.
Yet support for the president emerged from a broad political spectrum, including Republicans who noted that Martin was wearing a hooded sweatshirt when he was killed.
"There really is an issue of whether if you are black in America today, if you are dressed the way you are dressed, that can make you a victim," said Ari Fleischer, former press spokesman for George W Bush. "These are society's most delicate issues, and I thought the president handled it delicately."
The president's cautious response - which came almost a month after Martin was shot on February 26 - reflected the uproar he caused in 2009 when he made an off-the-cuff remark about the arrest by a white police officer of Henry Louis Gates, a black Harvard University professor. Obama said at the time the police had acted "stupidly", and was assailed for taking sides before he knew the facts of the case.
Newt Gingrich, one of the Republican presidential hopefuls, denounced Obama for "trying to turn it into a racial issue". Gingrich called the president's remarks "disgraceful", and added: "We should all be horrified no matter what the racial background."
Yet Gingrich appeared to be in a minority as investigators scrutinised Zimmerman's record as a volunteer security man and Martin emerged as a quiet youth who had never shown aggressive behaviour.
