March 24--LeBron James and his Miami Heat teammates did not make a show of their support of slain teenager TrayvonMartin during the pregame warm-up portion of tonight's game against the Detroit Pistons at the Palace of Auburn Hills.
Earlier, James and Heat guard Dwayne Wade posted photos on Twitter of themselves and their teammates wearing hooded sweatshirts, or hoodies, in support of Martin, who was shot and killed by a neighborhood crime-watch volunteer Feb. 26 in Sanford, Fla., while wearing a hoodie while returning to a gated community. 
Instead of a clearly visible display, some Heat players opted for a quiet statement by writing messages on their shoes. James wrote "RIP TrayvonMartin" on his shoes and Chris Bosch wrote "We Want Justice" on his.
"I think the only thing we want is we just want to make sure that we shed some light on the situation and let (people) know this is not just something happening in the community where it happened," Wade said after the Heat's 88-73 victory. "This is worldwide. We want to be a part of it until justice is served."
Wade said the players planned a similar tactic for their next game, Sunday night at Oklahoma City.
Before the game, Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said the photo of the players taken at the team hotel after this morning's shootaround showed great unity and that the players had the team's full support.
"It was a powerful statement today. ... And it really is a tragic story," he said. "The more you learn about it the more confused you get. For them to come together to draw more light on the subject I think is a powerful move. And we all stand behind them; not only the staff but the Miami Heat organization."
Pistons coach Lawrence Frank repeatedly called the killing a "travesty" and said he had no problem with the Heat taking part in a pregame demonstration of support. The Heat reportedly had planned to pay tribute to Martin before the game and a Florida state lawmaker urged them to wear hoodies.
"It's the great country we live in," he said. "Like I said, it's a travesty what happened. The whole country's appalled. Obviously it hits home because it took place in south Florida. But from a nation standpoint, that's something that should never happen and it's an alarming thing that it's still happening. Like I said, everyone's entitled to their own opinion and whatever stance the players take that's their right."
One of the Pistons' youngest players, center Greg Monroe, also said before the game he had no problem with the Heat demonstrating. Above all, Monroe advocated patience and careful judgment in the Martin case.
"I just hope that justice is served and the right outcome is found," said Monroe, 21. "I probably only know what's reported. You never know the whole story till everybody tells their side. But as long as the truth comes out that's all I'll I'm worried about.
"It's unfortunate situation anytime someone is dying. Your heart and your prayers go out to his family, but you just want to make sure that justice is served. If someone has committed a crime they should be punished for it."
Contact Carlos Monarrez: 313-222-6697 or cmonarrez@freepress.com
___ (c)2012 the Detroit Free Press Visit the Detroit Free Press at www.freep.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
