WASHINGTON - Urging Americans to "do some soul searching," President Barack Obama injected himself into the emotional debate over the fatal shooting of a teenager in Florida, turning the racially charged case into a personal matter for the nation's first black president.
"If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon," Obama said Friday. 
Obama's words also catapulted the death in Florida of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin into the presidential campaign. Three Republicans seeking Obama's job all used the word "tragedy" to describe the shooting, as the president did.
"I can only imagine what these parents are going through, and when I think about this boy, I think about my own kids," Obama said.
NATION
SANTORUM'S RURAL EDGE KEEPS HIM IN GOP CONTEST: Republican presidential nominating contests often reveal a rural-urban split in the party, but what sets this year's campaign apart is the emphasis Rick Santorum is placing on that divide and wearing his successes in small-town America as a badge of honor.
To hear Santorum tell it, the ability of front-runner Mitt Romney to win in big-city suburbs is a mark of ideological weakness, not political strength.
"Gov. Romney does well in the counties where Democrats do well, and we do well in the counties where Republicans do well," Santorum said in West Monroe, La. "That might give you some indication as to who the candidate is who best reflects the values of the Republican party."
ROMNEY SAYS OBAMA'S HEALTH LAW AN 'UNFOLDING DISASTER': Mitt Romney on Friday looked to pre-empt Supreme Court arguments that will shine a spotlight on a key vulnerability for him in the Republican primary - health care reform.
Romney called Democratic President Barack Obama's signature overhaul "an unfolding disaster for the American economy, a budget-busting entitlement and a dramatic new federal intrusion into our lives."
Romney was marking the second anniversary of the signing of the health care law, which requires all Americans to pay insurance or face a tax penalty. That mandate to buy insurance has become a focal point for conservative anger, and critics say it represents unwanted or even unconstitutional government intrusion.
DOCUMENTS SHOW NYPD INFILTRATED LIBERAL GROUPS: Undercover NYPD officers attended meetings of liberal political organizations and kept intelligence files on activists who planned protests around the country, according to interviews and documents that show how police have used counterterrorism tactics to monitor even lawful activities.
The infiltration echoes the tactics the NYPD used in the run-up to New York's 2004 Republican National Convention, when police monitored church groups, anti-war organizations and environmental advocates nationwide. That effort was revealed by The New York Times in 2007 and in an ongoing federal civil rights lawsuit over how the NYPD treated convention protesters.
Police said the pre-convention spying was necessary to prepare for the huge, raucous crowds that were headed to the city.
FACEBOOK TAKES STEPS TO ADDRESS PRIVACY CONCERNS: Facebook has taken steps in recent days to address more worries about privacy, warning employers not to ask prospective employees for their passwords and trying to clarify its user "rights and responsibilities" policies.
But the latter effort backfired when tens of thousands of users, mostly in Germany, misunderstood the clarifications and blasted the company, even though nothing substantive had changed. Their discontent showed that, no matter what Facebook does, privacy concerns are still the biggest threat to users' trust and to its growth.
"There is such an incredible level of scrutiny now about anything any company does about privacy," said Jules Polonetsky, director of the Future of Privacy Forum, an industry-backed think tank in Washington.
WORLD
TENS OF THOUSANDS IN SYRIA CALL FOR FALL OF REGIME: Tens of thousands of Syrians braved tear gas and gunfire to protest across the country Friday, vowing to storm the capital Damascus to oust President Bashar Assad as the European Union ramped up pressure on the regime by imposing sanctions on his wife and other close relatives.
Security forces deployed in many cities to disperse protests, but opposition groups reported fewer protester deaths than in past weeks. Activists said more than 20 people were killed nationwide in army attacks on opposition areas or clashes with armed rebels.
International condemnation and high-level diplomacy have failed to stop the year-old Syria crisis, which the U.N. says has killed more than 8,000 people, many of them civilian protesters.
EUROPE FACES NEW HOMEGROWN JIHADIST THREAT: With France's deadly attacks, Islamic terror has apparently struck once more in the heart of Europe - and authorities say there is a dangerous twist: the emergence of homegrown extremists operating independent of any known networks, making them difficult to track and stop.
"We have a different kind of jihadist threat emerging and it's getting stronger," Europol chief Rob Wainwright told The Associated Press in a telephone interview from The Hague. "It is much more decentralized and harder to track."
France's motorcycle gunman traumatized a nation heading into presidential elections and spread fear across the continent that the specter of al-Qaida was once again threatening daily life.
POPE ARRIVES IN MEXICO DENOUNCING VIOLENCE: Pope Benedict XVI set off on a pilgrimage to the New World on Friday, calling on Mexicans to conquer an "idolatry of money" that feeds drug violence and urging Cuba to leave behind a Marxism that "no longer responds to reality."
Benedict spoke to reporters aboard a special Alitalia flight carrying him to central Mexico, where a swelling crowd gathered along the route he would take from the airport later in the day. The pope said a lust for money was behind the drug violence that has claimed more than 47,000 lives in the country since 2006.
On Monday, Benedict will head for Cuba, and said it is "evident that Marxist ideology as it was conceived no longer responds to reality," and he urged Cubans to "find new models, with patience, and in a constructive way."
COMPILED BY CRAIG WHITE FROM WIRE REPORTS
