March 26--The tragedy of TrayvonMartin's death has become a story that is both racial and post-racial.
Community watch leader George Zimmerman shot Trayvon to death Feb. 26 in Sanford, Fla., in a case that has sparked nationwide outrage and protests. Zimmerman has not been charged.
Trayvon is black, and evidence so far suggests his skin color may be the biggest single factor that led to his death. 
But there is another story here about race: A diverse coalition of Americans have joined Trayvon's aggrieved parents in demanding charges against Zimmerman.
This feels new.
By now, we expect civil rights leaders to bring to the national agenda local cases of perceived injustice involving black Americans.
But the power of social media -- Facebook, YouTube and Twitter -- has helped stitch together folks who do not all see Trayvon's death in purely racial terms, but simply as a case of a good young man who lost his life for no discernible reason.
Any kid in America
Just before Trayvon ran into Zimmerman, his activities easily could have been depicted in a painting of Americana.
Accounts say he had been visiting his dad, and they were watching the NBA All-Star Game. This is what we want of our kids, right, to have a relationship with their father, a relationship too many don't have? It's a particularly acute need in some parts of the black community -- we all know it.
During halftime, Trayvon went to a convenience store to buy a pack of Skittles and an Arizona iced tea. He could have been any kid on any day in America, in any store. He left with his purchase.
Unfortunately for Trayvon, he fell under the radar of an armed Zimmerman, who had been telling neighbors about black boys breaking into homes. A newspaper interviewed the watch leader's neighbors, and some of the black males who live near Zimmerman said they did not feel comfortable walking in their own neighborhood because he subjected black men and boys to such scrutiny.
Far as we know, Zimmerman did not know Trayvon. But he fit the profile Zimmerman must have had in his head of a thief -- young, black and male.
Trayvon was talking to his girlfriend on a cell phone, and he was aware of Zimmerman, according to a transcript of the phone call. Trayvon felt he was being followed and quickened his pace, but he fought the urge to run.
A 911 call placed by Zimmerman reveals that an operator told him to stop following Trayvon and leave the matter to police. He apparently chose not to.
We don't know all the details of what happened next, but the loud crack of a gun shattered what had been an American tableau of a child going to a store for candy and then going off to see his dad.
Beyond race
Zimmerman is not talking to the media, but his parents say he is not racist and that he is of Latino descent. (They have not yet clarified why a Latino cannot carry around stereotypes about young blacks.)
His defense so far is a Florida law that says a gun owner can legally shoot someone if he is standing his ground and feels he is facing a real threat.
The Sanford City Council has voted no confidence in its police department based on its handling of the case. The chief has "temporarily" stepped down. A grand jury will convene, and federal officials are investigating.
While some want Zimmerman charged with a hate crime, I don't think that quite fits.
It doesn't appear Zimmerman went out that fateful day to go shoot a black person out of race hatred -- such as when the late soldier James Burmeister gunned down a black couple in Fayetteville, for which he was given a life term.
But Zimmerman did appear to possess a notion of how a "suspicious" black male looked.
And this notion is what the broad social-media-driven coalition chooses to reject, as it takes up with vigor the cause of TrayvonMartin's family. When these people see the picture of the baby-faced Trayvon, and match it up with his clean, crime-free record, they simply don't see what Zimmerman did. And as a result, they cannot figure out why what happened, happened.
One of the larger protests last week was named The Million Hoodie March, to show that a boy's choice of garb shouldn't determine whether he lives or dies.
In fact, some people who stand with Trayvon's family don't believe race should be part of this story at all. This can lead to some tension with traditional civil rights opinion-makers.
But some jostling is expected when a coalition becomes broad.
And it's a small price to pay when we have an opportunity out of this terrible tragedy to move the dialogue on race forward, just as Trayvon's slaying reminds us how far we have to go.
Columnist Myron B. Pitts can be reached at pittsm@fayobserver.com or 910-486-3559.
___ (c)2012 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
