Police in the state of Florida are under public and federal pressure to arrest a neighbourhood watch captain who remains at liberty more than three weeks after he shot dead an unarmed black teenager.
The case has caused a national outcry, since George Zimmerman, 28, claims that he has committed no crime and acted in self-defence in killing TrayvonMartin, 17, citing his right under Florida's so-called "stand your ground" law permitting individuals "to meet force with force, including deadly force" if attacked.
The release of 911 tapes reveal that, before the shooting, Zimmermann followed Martin as the latter walked home from a shop, and approached him on the grounds that he appeared suspicious, despite a warning by a police dispatcher not to do so. Police say there are no witnesses to contradict Zimmerman's claim that the shooting was in self-defence. 
But yesterday the Martin family's lawyer revealed that the teenager's girlfriend had been talking to him on his mobile at the time, and had come forward with an account which, they say, contradicts his killer's version of events.
The US justice department has stepped into the case, beginning an investigation along with the FBI; the department has also sent members of its community relations service to Sanford to try to defuse tensions, following demonstrations outside a courthouse by college students. Faced with a petition on the change.org website signed by almost 500,000 people, the state authorities intervened yesterday, announcing that a grand jury would hear evidence next month.
At a press conference yesterday the Martins' lawyer, Benjamin Crump, described how the unnamed girl, a minor, who was so traumatised by Martin's death that she was taken to hospital from his wake, had been talking to the victim in Sanford, near Orlando, on his mobile phone in the minutes leading up to his death, and heard an altercation with his killer. The girlfriend, who had been at home in Miami, conversed with Martin as he returned to the home of his father's girlfriend in a gated community.
She said he told her over the phone that a stranger was following him, according to an affidavit she has given. Martin then tried unsuccessfully to get away. "He says (into his phone), 'Oh he's right behind me, he's right behind me again,'" Crump said: "She says: 'Run.' He says, 'I'm not going to run, I'm just going to walk fast.'"
She then heard Martin saying, "Why are you following me", and another voice saying, "What are you doing here?" The girl told Crump she thought she heard Zimmerman push Martin "because his voice changes like something interrupted his speech". She heard an altercation and then the call was cut off, Crump said. When police arrived a minute later, at 7.17pm, Martin was lying dead in the street.
Before the call emerged, there were no witnesses to what happened. Now, Crump told reporters, the girl's evidence "connected the dots". Phone logs also showed that Martin was on the phone throughout his trip to the convenience store to buy sweets and drink, appearing to disprove Zimmerman's claim that he had been acting suspiciously. "This claim that TrayvonMartin was the aggressor is preposterous, and can't be allowed to stand," said Crump. "Arrest Zimmerman. Arrest him today. "(Martin) was just a kid trying to get home from the store and trying to get out of the rain."
The episode began as Zimmerman was patrolling in his SUV. A series of 911 calls from him and from people in the gated community culminate in a faint voice in the distance pleading for help. A gunshot is heard, and then silence. Beforehand Zimmerman had got out of his vehicle with his licensed pistol, and a worried dispatcher asked: "Are you following him? OK, you don't need to do that."
Zimmerman, who is studying criminal justice, was arrested once in 2005 on charges of attacking a police officer and resisting arrest; the case was dropped. Trayvon had no criminal record. He was suspended from his Miami high school for 10 days in February, which is why he was visiting his father.
Florida was the first state to pass the "stand your ground" law in 2005, called a "shoot first" law by gun control advocates. About half of all US states now have similar laws.
Captions:
Students outside the Seminole county courthouse in Sanford demand the arrest of George Zimmerman, below, for killing TrayvonMartin, 17, above Photograph: Red Huber/Photoshot
