AT LEAST 21 US states have adopted the "Stand Your Ground" laws that allowed the killer of unarmed teenager TrayvonMartin to walk free after Trayvon's shooting three weeks ago. 
George Zimmerman, a self-appointed Neighbourhood Watch captain, shot Trayvon dead when he saw him walking through a gated community after the youth bought a packet of Skittles and a bottle of iced tea from a local store.
Mr Zimmerman told police he believed Trayvon was acting suspiciously and appeared to have followed him.
The law, supported by the National Rifle Association and introduced by Jeb Bush when he was governor of Florida, extends the right to use lethal force in self-defence from the home into the public domain.
To be protected by the law it is not necessary for a killer to prove that he or she was threatened, just that they believed they were. Or, in the words of the act, if a person "reasonably believes that such force is necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm to himself or herself or another".
On Friday Mr Bush said he did not believe the law applied in this case because it appeared that Mr Zimmerman had followed Trayvon.
There have been protests across the US over the past few days, with activists demanding Mr Zimmerman's arrest.
Members of the radical New Black Panther Party have even offered a $US10,000 ($A9660) reward for his "capture".
One of the journalists who propelled the case to national attention, Ta-Nehisi Coates, a senior editor for The Atlantic, has said that the law seems to have protected killers in other cases.
On March 21, Greyston Garcia was acquitted under the law after chasing Pedro Roteta, 26, for a block before stabbing him after Mr Roteta stole his truck radio. Mr Roteta was unarmed.
Police who charged Mr Garcia said the judge's decision was a "travesty of justice". Also in Florida, Brandon Baker was shot dead by Seth Browning after a traffic altercation.
"What we have in Florida - and doubtlessly in other parts of the country - is the state relinquishing a crucial aspect of meting out justice," Coates writes.
"The logic here militates towards getting a gun - even for people who don't like guns."
Similar laws are being fought over in other states.
"I anticipate that some people will try to use this unfortunate incident as an excuse not to expand Iowans' right to self-defence," said the Iowa legislation's author, Republican Matt Windschitl.
Not every "Stand Your Ground" law, however, came from a Republican-controlled state. Oklahoma's Democratic governor signed one in 2006. So did Homeland Security chief Janet Napolitano, when she was the Democratic governor of Arizona. In Alabama, a bill identical to Florida's was first introduced by a Democrat. With
