 After mounting public outrage over the shooting of TrayvonMartin, an unarmed 17-year-old black teenager by a crime-watch volunteer, a grand jury will consider whether the 28-year-old shooter, George Zimmerman, should be charged.  
 Mr. Zimmerman wasn't arrested in connection with the Feb. 26 shooting because he claimed self-defence and police in Sanford, near Orlando, said they had no evidence to dispute his version of events. 
 In announcing the grand jury Tuesday, Florida State Attorney Norm Wolfinger, shifted the decision-making in what has become a racially-charged case to ordinary citizens. His decision, a day after the FBI and U.S. Department of Justice also decided to open an investigation into the case, may defuse the mounting public anger. 
 It also emerged Tuesday that Mr. Martin was talking to friend on his cell phone as Mr. Zimmerman approached. 
 The call, disclosed by Ben Crump, a lawyer representing the Martin family, suggests the teenager was worried about the approaching Mr. Zimmerman. 
 "She knew details about what went on because he was telling her," Mr. Crump said. According to the lawyer, the girl said, "I asked Trayvon to run, and he said he was going to walk fast. I told him to run, but he said he was not going to run," Phone records show the call between the two ended four minutes before police arrived to find Mr. Martin dead. 
 Other calls to 911 recorded sounds of an altercation, then a gunshot. 
 If the fevered fears of critics who warned of gun battles at check-out counters and showdowns in parks haven't been realized, the shooting of an unarmed black teenager by a gun-toting, crime watch volunteer has put the 'Stand Your Ground' law on public trial. 
 The 2005 law swept aside the limits of a centuries-old legal principle that "an Englishman's home is his castle" and redefined when a citizen could kill another rather than back away from a confrontation. The so-called 'castle doctrine,' long part of English common law and fundamental to key elements of the U.S. Constitution, includes not only a 'right to defend' but also corresponding 'duty to retreat.' 
 In other words, a citizen facing a threat in his home can use deadly force in self-defence. But the same right of self-defence - at least until Florida's law - didn't apply in public spaces. 
 Backed by the powerful National Rifle Association and passed overwhelmingly by Florida's legislature, the 'Stand Your Ground' law allowed citizens to use lethal force in self-defence in almost all public spaces. They no longer had to back off from confrontations. There was no 'obligation to retreat' from confrontation. 
 Seventeen other states have since passed similar laws. 
 Mr. Martin's death has focused public attention on the sweeping new scope of using lethal force in self defence. But it wasn't the first. 
 The Orlando Sentinel has cited a handful. One was the shooting death of an unarmed man in a park near Tampa in a dispute over skateboarding rules. A judge is currently considering whether the shooter merely 'stood his ground.' 
