FLORIDA SHOOTING
Thank goodness similar law was vetoed here
Given the recent shooting in Florida by a neighborhood watch volunteer of a young man whose only crime seemed to be that he carried a can of iced tea and a box of Skittles, I want to thank Gov. Mark Dayton for vetoing the recent handgun bill that would surely have promised similar violence in Minnesota. Despite instructions from 911 authorities to not follow a "suspicious character" he reported seeing in his neighborhood, and apparently emboldened by a seven-year-old Florida law that allowed him to shoot someone by whom he felt in any way threatened, the volunteer nonetheless left his truck, forced a confrontation and ended a life. That Florida bill, like the Minnesota bill, was opposed widely by law enforcement groups. It creates, as the Minnesota bill would have created, a situation where a shooter need only claim he or she was threatened to justify his or her actions -- while any claims to the contrary lay dead on the ground. Thank you, again, Governor. In cases like this, you remind everyone how, in an election, every vote counts.
RICHARD ROBBINS, MANKATO, MINN. 
- - -
It is appalling that the March 21 coverage (via the New York Times) of the killing of Trayvon Martin framed the story not as a human tragedy and possible gross failure of justice, but only as a test for Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law. If we are to address the issue of self-defense, wouldn't it be pertinent to know details like: The shooter was 80 pounds heavier than the unarmed 17-year-old; there are credible witnesses and audio recordings of the incident that seem to indicate that the killer was never under any threat, but that the victim, after being pursued and confronted, was; and that these witnesses and information have been ignored by the police? Might the story even question what kind of mortal threat a slight 17-year-old with a bag of Skittles posed against an adult with a gun? And finally, no implications were made as to the possible racial aspects of the case. Omitted from the quote "they always get away" was its immediate preface, in which the shooter clearly identifies "they" as black people.
BRIAN AMELANG, MINNEAPOLIS
Voter ID
'Minnesota Nice' is nowhere to be found
I watched, on public television, the House floor session discussing the constitutional amendment on voter ID from 6 p.m. Tuesday to 12:25 a.m. Wednesday. The DFL found many deficiencies in the language of the proposed amendment and proposed many amendments to correct them specifically to ensure that particular segments of our state population who might have difficulty getting a state-issued photo ID will not be denied the right to vote. All have been rejected on party-line votes, the GOP prevailing. It becomes apparent that suppressing the vote is the intent of the constitutional amendment, because assurances to the contrary are denied entrance. I expect the Star Tribune to report this in detail -- for instance, listing the offered amendments and reporting the vote. No other research or reporting would be necessary; it is all in the record. Report the record and let readers decide what is going on in the wee hours of the night. It is not "Minnesota Nice."
MASON C. MYERS, MINNETONKA
- - -
As a political independent, I sometimes shake my head in disbelief by the antics of both the Republican and DFL Parties in our state. However, the most absurd position being taken in Minnesota at this time is the opposition to voter ID by the DFL Party.
Have the Democrats among us forgotten about the numerous examples of voter fraud and expensive and time-consuming election recounts (that we taxpayers pay for)?
Have they forgotten about the millions of illegal aliens and other nonresident transients who are in our state and who could easily sway an election if permitted to vote?
Is there no concern among Democrats of the potential national security risks associated with a lack of voter ID? Or should we all just stick our heads in the sand and "trust" that nothing like that can happen in "Minnesota Nice"?
We have laws on the books that dictate who is allowed to vote in elections. I want this law to be enforced and not just "assumed."
The contention by Democrats that a voter ID law will disadvantage the poor and elderly is an obvious smokescreen, because the law will provide IDs to citizens without a valid driver license and will allow people to use other means to prove their residency.
The voter ID law has a clear fence line. On one side sits those who support voting laws and fair and accurate elections. On the other side sit those who do not.
CORBY PELTO, PLYMOUTH
Tax credits
Jobs were created, but hardly efficiently
I was surprised and dismayed at the Business section article March 20 about $15.8 million in tax credits creating 162 new jobs for our state. Simple math tells me the program took almost $100,000 out of the state budget for each job "created" by investors. This same amount of money could have been diverted to hiring 900 full-time paraprofessionals statewide for our struggling schools. Seems like a better investment in our future to me.
JARED FRANDSON, MINNEAPOLIS
Fishing licenses
Others get a break, but not senior citizens
Only in America can a person be born here, raise a large family, pay taxes, never get arrested, serve four years as a combat medic in World War II and reach the age of 90 and still have to buy a Minnesota fishing license while a foreign-exchange student of any age gets one free of charge. Something is not right here. Is this another case of your politicians looking out for everyone but their own?
PETE DORDAN, WAHKON, MINN.
