Watchdog warns of food shortages ITALY: The Rome-based Food and Agriculture Organisation warned on Thursday that an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in Egypt could spread and threaten livestock in north Africa and the Middle East, leading to possible food shortages. The disease is not a direct threat to humans but meat and milk from ill animals are unsafe for consumption. Some 40,222 cases of the disease are suspected in Egypt and 4,658 animals, mostly calves, have already died. The agency said 6.3 million buffalo and cattle and 7.5 million sheep and goats are at risk in Egypt.  
Prosecutors issue warrant for ex-MP ROMANIA: Prosecutors announced on Thursday that they will issue an international arrest warrant for a right-wing MP who fled the country before he was stripped of his parliamentary immunity over a property scam. They say Mihail Boldea of the Democratic Liberal Party was involved in falsifying title deeds while working as a lawyer. The houses were sold through intermediaries to make money. Mr Boldea left Romania on March 17, three days before parliament agreed the request to remove his immunity. Bereaved father vows justice fight UNITED STATES: The parents of a black teenager shot dead by a vigilante in Florida told hundreds of people at a New York march in his memory on Wednesday that they won't stop until they get justice for him. Neighbourhood watch captain George Zimmerman has not been charged for the February 26 shooting of unarmed 17-year-old TrayvonMartin in Sanford, Florida. Mr Martin's father Tracy Martin said: "I've told myself when I get justice for Trayvon, then I'll have my time to break down." Sunni guard was tortured, say MPs IRAQ: Iraq National Movement (INM) MPs accused the Shi'ite-dominated government on Thursday of torturing to death a jailed bodyguard who worked for Vice-President Tariq al-Hashemi, Iraq's highest-ranking Sunni official. The guard was held on suspicion of terrorism. Authorities say he died of kidney failure on March 15. INM MP Salman al-Jumaili demanded an investigation and said that human rights organisations should look into the case. MPs angered by dodgy coal deal INDIA: Angry MPs blocked proceedings in parliament on Thursday in the wake of the leak of an audit report which found that the government has lost hundreds of billions of pounds by selling coalfields to companies without competitive bidding. Opposition party leaders demanded an explanation from Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of why about 155 coalfields were sold to select private and state-run companies without competitive bidding, resulting in an estimated loss of nearly 135bn. Mr Singh's government has been repeatedly embarrassed in recent years as senior ministers and officials have faced corruption charges. UN calls for halt to Syria bloodshed SYRIA: The United Nations security council sent a united message to the Syrian government and opposition on Wednesday to immediately implement proposals by international envoy Kofi Annan to end the year-long bloodshed. The presidential statement, which is non-binding, calls for a ceasefire, a daily two-hour halt to fighting to evacuate the injured and provide humanitarian aid and inclusive Syrian-led political talks "to address the legitimate concerns of the Syrian people." The council condemned "the terrorist attacks which happened in Damascus and Aleppo on March 17 and 18 and caused tens of deaths and injuries." North Korea gets orchestra invite UNITED STATES: An Atlanta-based humanitarian group announced on Thursday that it is planning to bring North Korea's national orchestra to the US this spring for a tour that aims to boost understanding between US and Korean citizens. Global Resource Services president Robert Springs said that the proposed 18-day visit by the North Korean National Symphony Orchestra is awaiting government approval. "The hope is that we can better understand the people of North Korea and that they can better understand us," he said. "And that could lead to normalised relations." 'Accidental' bomb blast kills driver INDIA: A bomb exploded on Thursday in a car outside Srinigar in Jammu Kashmir state, killing the driver and wounding at least 20 others in what police said may have been an accident involving separatists. Authorities believe a rebel was transporting the bomb when it went off accidentally in Bijbehara town.
