send off-court
social message
Agence France-Presse
Miami
LeBron James and Dwyane Wade led the Miami Heat in sending a supportive message over a controversial killing yesterday in addition to scoring the most points in the team's NBA triumph over Detroit.
Wade scored 24 points and James added 17 to lead the visiting Heat over the Detroit Pistons 88-73. Miami improved to 35-11, the second-best record in the NBA, trailing only the Chicago Bulls at 39-10. 
But it's what the team did earlier that was the bigger Twitter topic of conversation as Heat players posed for a team photo with all of them wearing hooded sweatshirt, hoodies, with heads bowed and hands in their pockets. Hoodies have become a symbol in the wake of the shooting death of an unarmed black Florida teenager wearing a hooded sweater by a white volunteer guard last February 26 near Orlando, where the NBA All-Star Game was being played.
No charges have been filed in the shooting death of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, which has prompted calls for a deeper investigation into the incident, which the shooter has said was an act of self-defence.
The Heat hoodie picture was made public in a Twitter posting by James, an NBA superstar, and in the wake of team-mate Wade posting a Twitter picture of himself in a grey hoodie.
"It was a powerful statement," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said.
Among the hashtags linked to the team photo James posted was one that said "WeWantJustice". Another was "WeAreTrayvonMartin".
"Our hearts go out to the family and loved ones of TrayvonMartin for their loss and for everyone involved in this terrible tragedy," the Heat said in a statement. "We support our players and join them in hoping that their images and our logo can be part of the national dialogue and can help in our nation's healing."
Wade told the South Florida Sun Sentinel the message was meant to support all who grieve Martin's death.
"I'm a father," Wade said. "It's support of the tragic thing that has taken place. No matter what colour, race, we're all fathers.
"When you think about what that family's going through, it hits you hard and it hurts your heart to think about it. Obviously we can't bring him back, but anything you can do to get behind and support is what we're doing."
Some Miami players reportedly wore messages written on their sneakers during the Detroit game that said, "RIP TrayvonMartin" and "We Want Justice".
Other NBA players joined the hoodie movement, including New York Knicks stars Carmelo Anthony and Amare Stoudemire, whose team saw a five-game win streak snapped with a 96-79 defeat at Toronto.
Stoudemire scored 17 points and Anthony added 12 and both posted pictures of themselves wearing hoodies on their Twitter pages.
Anthony posted his picture in a grey hoodie with head bowed and in front of it the words "I am TrayvonMartin!!!!!".
Stoudemire wore a hoodie when he arrived at the game and in a pre-game workout and tweeted, "I got my hoodie. Stand up?" with hashtags to "RIPTrayvonMartin" and "justicemustbehad."
Thunder overcomes Love
When the smoke settled, the Oklahoma City Thunder had won the epic shootout behind hotshots Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant.
Westbrook poured in nine of his career-high 45 points in the second overtime, Durant added 40 with a season-high 17 rebounds and the Thunder withstood 51 points by Kevin Love to outlast the visiting Minnesota Timberwolves 149-140.
"This was an unbelievable game, probably the best I've ever played in," Durant said after the instant classic. "It was nerve-racking, but it was fun to be a part of, something that people are going to look back and enjoy."
Love set a personal-best and Minnesota franchise mark for most points scored and pulled down 14 rebounds. JJ Barea had a triple double with 25 points, 14 assists and 10 rebounds but the T-Wolves lost for the fifth time in six games.
"It would have meant a lot more if we got the win," said Love, whose tied Durant for the second highest game in the NBA this season.
"It's tough because we had chances to win the game. But Kevin, Russell and the rest of their team made plays. That's why they're the top team in the West."
Durant appeared to have drained the game-winning three with 3.9 seconds left in regulation.
But Love answered with a triple of his own with one second remaining that sent the game into the first overtime.
The Thunder trailed by five with 46 seconds left, but Westbrook made a driving lay-up and Durant buried a cold-blooded three-pointer from the right corner with 10 seconds remaining that forced a second five-minute session knotted at 129-apiece.
Westbrook, then, took charge and the Thunder closed on a 9-2 run to for their 11th straight win in the series.
"I just tried to get aggressive," the speedy All-Star guard said. "I tried to get to the basket and get us some points."
