SANFORD, Fla. -- Some of the nation's foremost civil rights activists Thursday night rallied hundreds of people -- the overwhelming majority of them African-Americans -- in a call for justice following the fatal shooting of a black 17-year-old last month by a neighborhood watch volunteer.
The Rev. Al Sharpton, NAACP president Ben Jealous and a number of religious leaders and elected officials crowded onto a small, makeshift stage in a lakeside park for a rally that began with a prayer and ended with a promise to work for fair treatment under the law. 
"People ask me today if I'm afraid of violence happening," Rev. Sharpton said. "No, I'm afraid of the violence that has already happened."
He urged the more than 1,000 people gathered to be "dignified and determined" while they call for a fuller investigation and changes in the legal system. Tensions have been building in the Florida town and reverberating throughout the country in the month since embattled Sanford police Chief Bill Lee Jr. and his officers decided not to arrest George Zimmerman after he fatally shot TrayvonMartin, who was unarmed, on Feb. 26. Police say Mr. Zimmerman is white; his family says he's Hispanic.
Trayvon was returning from a trip to a convenience store when Mr. Zimmerman started following him, calling police dispatchers to say the teenager looked suspicious. The two then got into a fight and Mr. Zimmerman pulled out his gun.
Mr. Zimmerman has said that shooting was self-defense. He told police Trayvon attacked him after he had given up on chasing the teenager and was returning to his car.
The shooting has ignited racial tensions, with civil rights groups calling the shooting unjustified. City commissioners in Sanford gave the police chief a "no confidence" vote in a 3-2 decision late Wednesday. Chief Lee, 52, was hired in May.
Chief Lee announced at a hastily called news conference Thursday that he was temporarily stepping down, saying he had become a distraction to the investigation. Hours later, Gov. Rick Scott announced that the local state attorney, Norman Wolfinger, had recused himself from the case and that a task force led by Lt. Gov. Jennifer Carroll, an African-American, will conduct hearings on the case and make recommendations for any changes to state law or procedure.
Thursday evening, civil rights activists including Dick Gregory and Martin Luther King III, and state and federal legislators from Florida came to this small Orlando suburb.
U.S. Rep. Corrine Brown, D-Sanford, called the rally "a teachable moment."
"I want only one thing and it's real simple," she said. "I want an arrest. We must get this case in the criminal justice system, but it must start with an arrest."
Sanford Mayor Jeff Triplett, who early this week traveled to Washington, D.C. to meet with federal justice officials, spoke briefly to the crowd, saying, "I come before you with a heavy heart. I have two sons, and I wonder what if it had happened to them? How would I feel? What would I do?"
The throng gave Mr. Triplett a lukewarm response, mixed with some booing, until he was called back to the stage by Ms. Brown, who demanded that the crowd give him "his proper respect."
She said that when she reached out to the mayor he traveled to Washington, D.C. the next day to work with her on the issue and authorized the release of the controversial 911 tapes that have incensed people across the country.
Under a clear blue sky, people of various ages and races gathered to hear the leaders' messages, many of them carrying signs as well as bags of Skittles and cans of Arizona iced tea, the items Trayvon was carrying when he was killed.
For Sanford resident Kellie Campbell, 36, the mother of three sons, this was her seventh rally since the shooting of Trayvon in a gated community less than 10 miles from her home. Ms. Campbell, who is black, said she has witnessed racial bias firsthand and has told her sons to "keep your heads up and don't let it bother you."
"There has to be a change," she said. "I would describe the mood here as motivated. Something's going to happen, and it's about time."
Ms. Campbell described the black community in Sanford as being divided into three groups: "the church-going people, the street people, and then the people in the middle who just don't give a damn."
People at the park for the rally were mostly African-American and mostly optimistic about the possibility of change for their community.
Sanford resident Sim Jackson Jr., 57, said the chief "should resign, the way he handled this case."
Mr. Jackson, who is black and retired from the U.S. Navy, said that he has experienced bias from the local police in the three years he has lived in Sanford, and said that he has cautioned his son in how to deal with it.
"I've witnessed it. I've lived through it. And I try to explain it," he said.
Seeing the civil rights leaders come to this community to speak on this matter is "extremely important."
"We have to make something good come out of this," he said. "This city needed this. I'm not talking about losing a child's life, but change. Something to bring about change."
Leadership from the outside was necessary, he said.
"The local people haven't done enough," he said. "They are angry about the way they've been treated for years, but it took the sacrifice of a young man's life to do something."
The Rev. John Long of National Action Network in Daytona Beach, Fla., disagreed, saying the catalyst for change is here.
"Every community has resources and people of goodwill," Rev. Long said. "People can come from outside to inspire, showing the example of what has been done before. But no one can come from outside and lead the people to success. It has to be indigenous."
