March 23--VALDOSTA -- The tragic shooting of an unarmed Sanford, Fla. teen is bringing scrutiny to "Stand your Ground" state laws and neighborhood watches.
TrayvonMartin was killed by a neighborhood watch captain, who may go unpunished under the law.
According to reports, Martin was walking home from a store where he had just purchased a bag of Skittles and an iced tea for his younger brother. George Zimmerman, a self-proclaimed neighborhood watch captain, called police to report a suspicious person after he saw Martin walking near his home. Despite police instructing him not to confront Martin, Zimmerman allegedly approached the teenager. 
Witnesses say a scuffle ensued before Zimmerman shot the unarmed teen in the chest with a semi-automatic pistol, killing him.
Since the incident, many have asked how it is possible that such a tragedy could happen, and more importantly, why Zimmerman has not been charged in the death.
The Florida "Stand Your Ground" law, which permits a person to use deadly force if they feel threatened, has so far allowed Zimmerman to remain free.
So could the same case happen in Georgia?
Possibly, but not likely. The law is written differently in Georgia, stating that a person can use deadly force only if "he or she reasonably believes that such force is necessary to prevent death or great bodily injury to himself or herself or a third person or to prevent the commission of a forcible felony."
When asked about neighborhood watch programs and the law here in the city, Valdosta Police Cmdr. Brian Childress said to his knowledge, there has not been a case anywhere close to the one that occurred in Sanford. He also commended the neighborhood watch participants who assist law enforcement in making arrests.
"We have organized neighborhood watch groups here locally who act as law enforcement's eyes and ears," the commander said. "We constantly and religiously tell them their only job is to be aware of what's going on ... to be our eyes and ears. They cannot take the law into their own hands. They are to call us if they see something suspicious. So far, our neighborhood watch groups have been very successful for us."
Childress was adamant about not wanting to comment on how the law enforcement in Florida is handling the Martin case, as there is an active investigation into the incident.
The issue has also spurred charges of racism as Zimmerman is white and Martin a young black male.
The local Southern Christian Leadership Conference sponsored a "Justice For TrayvonMartin" rally Thursday evening on the steps of the historic county courthouse. The Rev. Floyd Rose said it was important for the citizens of Valdosta to get involved, not only for Trayvon, but for young black men in this community as well.
"We are joining thousands of people in cities across the United States who are calling on the Sanford (Florida) Police Department to arrest George Zimmerman who has acknowledged that he, in fact, shot and killed the unarmed teenager," Rose said. "The rally is also for the mistreatment of young black men in Valdosta by city law enforcement. Not since the murder of 14- year- old, Emitt Till, in 1955, in Money, Mississippi, have I seen so much national outrage, and loud cries for justice, as I have seen in the TrayvonMartin case. No one believes that this killing was justifiable."
Rose went on to say if the tables were turned and a black man shot a white man, he would have been arrested and held until he could prove his case, and even then, it may take years. He reiterated that this case is nothing new but that something needs to be done to stop it.
Since the incident, a national campaign on Change.org is calling for Florida State Attorney Norman Wolfinger to charge Zimmerman in the shooting death of Martin. More than 200,000 people have joined the campaign so far.
Protests and marches have been held in several major cities across the country, and more are planned through the weekend.
For more on this story and other local news, subscribe to The Valdosta Daily Times e-Edition, or our print edition.
___ (c)2012 The Valdosta Daily Times (Valdosta, Ga.) Visit The Valdosta Daily Times (Valdosta, Ga.) at www.valdostadailytimes.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
