THE US Justice Department is to investigate the shooting of an unarmed black teenager by a neighbourhood watch guard following a day of protests over the incident.
George Zimmerman, 28, claims he shot 17-year-old Trayvon Martin last month in self-defence during a confrontation in a gated community in Sanford, Florida. Zimmerman spotted Mr Martin as he was patrolling his area on a rainy evening and called the police emergency service to report a suspicious person. Against the advice of the emergency operator, Zimmerman then followed Mr Martin, who was walking home from a convenience store with a bag of sweets in his pocket. 
The Justice Department said in a statement that the FBI and the US Attorney's Office will join in the agency's investigation. "The department will conduct a thorough and independent review of all the evidence and take appropriate action at the conclusion of the investigation," the agency said.
The case has attracted national attention. Civil rights activist Al Sharpton is expected to join Sanford city leaders in a public meeting to discuss with residents how the investigation is being handled.
The Justice Department said its community relations service also will be in Sanford this week to meet with authorities, community officials and civil rights leaders "to address tension in the community."
Yesterday, college students around Florida rallied to demand Zimmerman's arrest, as authorities may be hamstrung by a state law that allows people to defend themselves with deadly force. Prosecutors may not be able to charge Zimmerman because of changes to state law in 2005. Under the old law, people could use deadly force in self-defence only if they had tried to run away or otherwise avoid the danger.
Under the new law, there is no duty to retreat and it gives a Floridian the right "to stand his or her ground and meet force with force, including deadly force," if he feels threatened.
Mr Martin's parents and other advocates have said the shooter would have been arrested had he been black. "You would think that Sanford is still in the 1800s claiming that this man can call self-defence for shooting an unarmed boy," restaurant owner Linda Tillman said.
Gun control advocates said the case is emblematic of permissive laws in Florida, which was among the first states to allow residents to carry concealed weapons. Florida was the first state to pass a "Stand Your Ground" law, dubbed a "Shoot First" law by critics.
Currently, about half of all US states have similar laws, said Brian Malte, legislative director of the Brady Campaign, which is dedicated to preventing of gun violence.
"It's coming to dangerous fruition," Mr Malte added.
