ENGLEWOOD -- A sea of men, women and children marched solemnly  through the city's streets Sunday afternoon to condemn the killing  of TrayvonMartin, the black Florida teen shot to death last month  by a neighborhood watch volunteer who wasn't arrested after he  claimed self-defense.    
    Dressed in hoodies much like Martin was wearing when he was shot,  about 500 people gathered at Mount Calvary Baptist Church before  the march where they spoke of race and justice as the case has come  into the national spotlight.     
  "Unfortunately, it can happen to any of our children, no matter how  much they do the right thing," said Marcia Pinkett-Heller of  Teaneck. "It is a sense of 'yet again.' I think tomorrow morning  every person of color in this country should leave their home with  a sign on that says, 'Am I next?' "    
    The killing spurred demonstrations across the country during the  weekend from Los Angeles to Chicago to New York, where several  hundred people gathered in the pews at Middle Collegiate Church in  Manhattan on Sunday wearing hoodies. On Saturday, about 80 people  demonstrated in Paterson against the killing.    
    Martin, 17, was shot on Feb. 26 while he was walking from a  convenience store to his father's fiance's home in Sanford, Fla.,  by George Zimmerman, whose father is white and mother is Hispanic.    
    Zimmerman said the teen attacked him. Police and prosecutors cited  Florida's "stand your ground" law, which gives immunity to anyone  using deadly force if they feel threatened, in deciding not to  charge Zimmerman. Martin had no weapon, carrying only a drink and a  bag of candy. State and federal authorities are investigating.    
    Organizers of the Englewood march, dubbed "Hoodie Sunday," only  began planning on Thursday evening. But word spread quickly in  newspapers, on social media and from the pulpit. Hundreds descended  on Mount Calvary shortly after their own church services concluded.  Clergy members and leaders of the NAACP of Bergen County said they  wanted not only to remind North Jersey of Martin's killing, but to  help foster better race relations among all residents.    
    With two men holding large American flags at the front, the throng  marched silently about a half-mile from the church down Teaneck  Road to Mackay Park.    
    Marchers said the hoodie was symbolic not only of Martin, but its  wider implication that a young black man wearing one equals  trouble.    
    "It's been hoodies, it's been sagging jeans, it's been you name  it," said Mark DeMontagnac, an Englewood school board member.  "There is some profiling going on. We're dressed this way to show  you that anybody can have a hoodie on."    
    Hasan Salaam, 31, of North Bergen said some white people get  nervous when they see a black man wearing a three-piece suit.    
    "They think black people are one monolithic thing that they see on  the news, on television and in very bad gangster movies," he said.  "When people are educated as to otherwise, it starts to open up  people's minds that everybody has red blood in their veins."    
    The march drew several public officials, including City Council  members, Teaneck Mayor Mohammed Hameeduddin and Assemblyman Benjie  Wimberly, D-Paterson. Rep. Bill Pascrell Jr., D-Paterson, and Rep.  Steve Rothman, D-Englewood -- opponents in the 9th Congressional  District primary race -- were also there.    
    "The first thing we need to do is bring Trayvon's killer to  justice," said Rothman, wearing an Englewood Fire Department  hoodie.    
    Organizers like the Rev. Vernon Walton kept pressing the need for  marchers to vote and handed out voter registration forms.    
    Also attending was Thelma Pannell, whose son Phillip, who was  black, was shot and killed by a white Teaneck police officer in  1990.    
    Fighting back tears, Pannell quietly told the gathering that she  hopes the Martin family can find peace and justice. "I know what  they're going through," said Pannell, who works for North Jersey  Media Group, which publishes The Record and Herald News.    
    The vast majority of marchers were black. But people of other races  said they felt compelled to attend.    
    "It's heartbreaking for our human community that young people,  because of the color of their skin or how they're dressed are  potentially annihilated," said Isabella D'Agostino of Closter, who  is white.    
    D'Agostino and her son Marcus Garfunkel said they believe the  Martin shooting could happen anywhere, despite New Jersey's  stricter gun laws.    
    "I think it may make it a little more difficult for it to happen  here with a gun," Garfunkel said. "I think the feelings that were  felt in this situation can happen here. That was the main thing  that caused" Zimmerman to shoot Martin.    
    Dozens of Paterson residents and elected officials took to the  streets Saturday in support of Martin's family.    
    The protesters first gathered shortly after 9 a.m. in front of the  Paterson Public Library, where Pascrell and Wimberly gave speeches.  They then marched to City Hall, many wearing hoodies and carrying  bags of Skittles and plastic bottles of iced tea, which is what  Martin was carrying when shot by Zimmerman.    
    Several marchers carried signs that said, "We are TrayvonMartin,"  said Councilman Anthony Davis, who was among the 80 people he  estimated attended the rally.    
    Davis said another rally is planned for 7 p.m. Tuesday in front of  City Hall and that organizers are encouraging everyone to show up  wearing hoodies.    
    Staff Writer Colleen Diskin contributed to this article, which also  contains information from The Associated Press.
"Unfortunately it can happen to any of our children no matter how  much they do the right thing."   
  MARCIA PINKETT-HELLER, TEANECK RESIDENT
WHAT'S NEXT  
    Another rally is planned for 7 p.m. Tuesday in front of Paterson  City Hall. Organizers are encouraging everyone to show up wearing  hoodies.  
 MORE COVERAGE  
    U.S. could pursue hate crime charge in Fla. A4
