SANFORD TEEN SHOOTING
DAYTONA BEACH -- Area resident Sharonda Elliott didn't know TrayvonMartin, the black teenager whose death last month in Sanford has sparked national outrage.
Martin, 17, died after being shot by George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer in a gated community.
Elliott said she can relate to the pain Martin's family must be feeling following the senseless death of a love one. Her brother Bruce Johnson was killed in 2002. No one has been arrested in that case, according to Elliott. 
I'm saddened by it (referring to Martin's death) and for the family," she said after Sunday school at Greater Friendship Baptist Church on George W. Engram Boulevard.
I really think that it was a crime based on color," she said.
So does the Rev. L. Ronald Durham, pastor at Greater Friendship and organizer of a march last week in Sanford calling for the arrest of Zimmerman, 28.
The evidence seems to indicate that Zimmerman perpetuated a deliberate hate crime," Durham said in his remarks Sunday during church service.
Zimmerman, who has been described as a Hispanic, maintains that he was defending himself.
Police reports indicate Martin did not have a weapon. He was returning from a convenience store carrying only a bag of Skittles and a can of iced tea. Zimmerman is heard on 9-1-1 tapes describing the boy as "suspicious."
Every so often in America, there comes a tragedy that exposes America's most senseless fault lines," Durham told the congregation Sunday.
He chastised the media for initially ignoring the story, the national gun lobby for its role in the proliferation of guns in America, and state lawmakers who pushed through the "Stand Your Ground" law which allows Florida residents to defend themselves with deadly force in certain situations. Some have suggested that it may have played an underlying role in what happened to Martin.
But the big "elephant in the room," Durham said, remains race and Americans reluctance to talk about it. If the shooter were black and the victim white, he said, police would have taken a different tack.
Until we get to the real underlying issue in this country, we will never solve the problem and race is the problem in America today," Durham said.
Attorney Steven Robinson , another member of the congregation, agreed there were racial overtones in Martin's death.
I do think that race played a part in the overall investigation of Martin's death. It is an unfortunate reality in our society," Robinson said, adding a full investigation is necessary.
Due process. That is what people are calling for and no matter how the case ends up, there needs to be a thorough investigation and not just take the word of Zimmerman," he said.
Both a state grand jury and the U.S. Department of Justice have announced plans to review the case. Church member Arthur Harper, meanwhile, said he was puzzled why police did not take Zimmerman into custody or take his weapon. He noted that when police officers are involved in questionable shootings, they are subject to being put on leave pending an investigation.
He (Zimmerman) killed somebody and nothing was said. It looks racial to me. We might not have all the facts but it seems to point that way," he said.
Sunday was Youth Sunday at Greater Friendship and at least a dozen people wore hooded sweatshirts in remembrance of Martin, who was wearing one when he was killed Feb. 26.
Durham asked them to stand. He warned them as well as other young people present to be careful when they do simple things such as walking down the street, reaching into a pocket to get identification card and even reaching under the seat in a car when stopped by law enforcement.
Your life may be at risk if you are in the wrong place talking to the wrong person," he said.
DEVELOPMENTS
B-CU MARCHES FOR MARTIN: Students at Bethune-Cookman University plan a march for TrayvonMartin at 4:30 p.m. today from the university quad to First Baptist Church of Daytona Beach.
PRESIDENT'S COMMENTS: Top presidential adviser David Plouffe says President Barack Obama's decision to comment on the shooting death of an African-American teenager in Florida was motivated by parental instinct more than the incident's emergence as a racial issue. He says Obama reacted instinctively as a parent last week in saying that Americans needed "some soul searching" in the wake of the slaying.
THE REV. JESSE JACKSON preached at Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church in Eatonville on Sunday. Jackson said Martin's "martyr" death should be used as an opportunity to revive the Civil Rights Commission. FULL STORY, PAGE 5A
PREVIOUS COVERAGE: news-journalonline.com
