The Florida city at the centre of a renewed American debate on racial injustice has passed a vote of no confidence in the police chief responsible for investigating the death of an unarmed black teenager. Thousands of demonstrators, led by the civil rights leaders Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson, descended on Sanford last night to demand the arrest of a neighbourhood watch leader who has admitted killing TrayvonMartin, 17, as he walked home with a bag of sweets for his little brother. Despite evidence that George Zimmerman had chased the schoolboy and shot him as he screamed for help, the police did not arrest him after he claimed to have acted in self-defence. Since the boy's death on February 26, pressure has been growing on the city's police department, led by Bill Lee.
Velma Williams, one of the city commissioners who called for Mr Lee's resignation, said that she had spent years trying to improve racial harmony in central Florida. She called Trayvon's death a "national embarrassment". 
More than a million people have signed an online petition set up by the boy's parents and federal authorities have launched an investigation into the police's decision not to make an arrest.
The shooting has re-opened the debate over racial profiling, with Trayvon's mother claiming that a schoolboy walking home is viewed as a potential criminal purely because of the colour of his skin.
Demonstrators at a "million hoodie march" in New York wore hoods or baseball caps and carried bags of Skittles and iced tea as they asked whether they too should be seen as suspects. "Our son is your son, I want you all to stand up for justice and stand up for what's right," Sybrina Fulton, Trayvon's mother, told the crowd.
Before the shooting, Mr Zimmerman called the police to report a suspiciouslooking man. "He looks like he's black, [he's wearing] a dark hoodie," he said. The neighbourhood watch leader had regularly called police to report suspicious black men in his neighbourhood in recent years.
With Mr Zimmerman in hiding and no lawyer employed to speak on his behalf, it has fallen to the police department to defend the alleged vigilante. Officials have repeatedly recounted Mr Zimmerman's version of events, in which he claimed to have been returning to his vehicle when he was attacked from behind by the schoolboy.
A recording of his conversation with the 911 operator, however, revealed that he had decided to track the boy" This guy looks like he's up to no good," Mr Zimmerman said.
Police say that Mr Zimmerman was within his rights to be carrying a concealed semi-automatic weapon and that he had no obligation to follow the operator's request to wait for police assistance. The police officers who found the body decided that there was insufficient evidence to arrest Mr Zimmerman. "The Sanford police decided on the scene to be judge and jury," Ms Fulton said.
After weeks of silence from the Florida state government, Rick Scott, the Governor, admitted that there may have been abuses of the 2005 "Stand Your Ground" law, which allows citizens to use deadly force in public places if they believe they are threatened. Sanford Police said that they were unable to arrest Mr Zimmerman because of the law, which was passed by the former Governor Jeb Bush.
