Americans are  not "soul-searching" about the shooting death of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, as a recent USA TODAY headline stated; we are outraged ("TrayvonMartin is dead; nation is soul-searching," Cover story, News, Wednesday)!
Maybe the Sanford, Fla., police are  soul-searching. Maybe George  Zimmerman, God help him, is soul-searching. 
Imagine that was your kid, walking home from the store, minding his own business when  some puffed-up, not-in-uniform, trigger-happy guy started following him in his car and then on foot, scared him, challenged him and shot him dead. Forever.
Ed Veeser
Austin
Zimmerman overstepped authority
This is not about a black kid being shot because he resisted or was in an area where he "didn't belong." This is about a citizen assuming he had the authority to enforce a law and to carry a weapon where neither  authority nor training  was present.
It is truly  tragic  when a teenager  cannot walk to a 7-Eleven,  buy a snack and walk home without being shot. It is not possible to know all the facts from news media reports, but, so far,  this story stinks.
Fred Stewart
Kalispell, Mont.
Keep weapons out of wrong hands
Let's talk about the 800-pound gorilla in the egregious case of TrayvonMartin and George Zimmerman. The Second Amendment allows the freedom to keep and bear arms. With rights, however, come responsibilities.
I've served close to 30  years in the fire and emergency service business. During that time, I've seen more than my share of shootings and cannot, for the life of me, remember anyone shooting  someone to protect life and/or property.
I do remember a friend's wife, an accomplished tournament handgun expert, accidentally  shooting herself  in the leg while investigating a bump in the night.
The fire department was  awakened one night to find three young people with holes in their heads as a result of some sort of dispute. I  remember eight shifts in a row that started or ended with a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.
While the emotional effect of this tragedy weighs heavily on us all, I hope it will stimulate reasoned discussions on how we can keep idiots from getting weapons for which the sole purpose is to  shoot people for no apparent reason.
Michael P. Kane
Snellville, Ga.
Focus on sacredness of life
Your editorial  "In Trayvon's death, ugly echoes"  ends with questions to ponder (Friday). Some questions I have:  If TrayvonMartin had been white and shot to death, would this have been a national  or a local story? If George Zimmerman had been black and shot a white boy, would Al Sharpton  have held a rally for the boy?
No doubt  race played a factor in this incident, but I think the tragedy is we have made race the primary focus of this story. What I see is a young boy whose life has been taken away. An individual has been killed, never to achieve his God-given potential. My prayers go to his family.
I believe the primary focus of this tragic story should be Trayvon, a young person. That is what will give meaning to his life.  Let's make this about the sacredness of a human life.
When we shift our primary focus in such a way, we hopefully will begin to see each other as human beings.
Michael Spinella
Delaware City, Del. 
