There are times when you are jarred so deeply by an incident that your faith in all that is good and just about our society falters and teeters on the edge of being irrevocably shattered.
The shooting death of TrayvonMartin, a 17-year-old African American high school student from Miami is one of those times.
Trayvon, visiting his dad in a gated community in Sanford, Fla., was watching the NBA All-Star game when he left at the half-time break to buy Skittles and an Arizona Iced Tea at a nearby 7-11. 
He was on his way back from the store and talking to his girlfriend on his cellphone when he was chased and killed by 28-year-old George Zimmerman, a self-appointed neighborhood watch volunteer, who was taped on a 911 call referring to Trayvon as "...These assholes, they always get away."
The young man's death is tragic enough, but what has stirred the outrage of the nation and the international community has been the coldhearted dismissal of his death by the Sanford Police Department.
The police briefly questioned Mr. Zimmerman and sent him home with the weapon he used to kill Trayvon. And although they had access to his cellphone, the police then kept the young man in the morgue as a "John Doe."
It wasn't until Tracy Martin, the young man's father, called missing persons and the police to report his son missing that officers came to his home with a crime scene photograph, at which point they vouched for Mr. Zimmerman as being "squeaky clean."
Under Florida's "Stand your Ground" law, people are allowed to defend themselves with deadly force as long as they "reasonably believe" it is necessary to protect themselves.
But 911 recordings and statements by Trayvon's girlfriend and other witnesses seem to suggest that Mr. Zimmerman manufactured the threat.
The evidence from the 911 tapes indicated that Trayvon, noticing that he was being followed by Mr. Zimmerman, began to run and that Mr. Zimmerman, ignoring the advice of the 911 operator not to give pursuit, chased down the young man and shot him.
Despite having this information, the Sanford Police Department has refused to move against Mr. Zimmerman.
This reluctance, along with other incidents involving the Sanford Police Department, has heightened concern around racial profiling and the inequitable treatment of African Americans, particularly young black men, under the law.
A former Sanford police chief was forced from office last year after he declined to press charges against the son of a lieutenant who was caught on camera beating up a homeless black man, and in 2005, the son of a Sanford Police Department veteran and a volunteer for the department, shot a black teenager in the back, killing him. The two, who were working as security guards, had their cases dismissed on a self-defense plea.
Keesha LaTulippe, director of the Office for Racial and Economic Equity at the Henry Lee Willis Community Center, is among the millions who have reacted with shock and dismay to the lack of an arrest in this case.
A Worcester resident and a member of an inter-racial family, Ms. LaTulippe said Trayvon's death compelled her to sit down and talk with her 11-year-old daughter about the injustices she might encounter in her young life.
"I want her to know that these are not isolated, random incidents that could happen anywhere, rather that these are recurring patterns of behavior that are the result of a community and culture that allows everyday acts of systematic racism to occur," she wrote in a Facebook posting.
"If it is happening in my community, which it is, what am I doing to stop it? That is what I ask myself..."
That is what we all should be asking ourselves.
