The shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in Florida and the failure of the police to arrest the shooter, who claimed self-defense, is a cautionary tale about those states, including Pennsylvania, that have expanded the right to use lethal force in self-defense. 
On Feb. 26, Martin was shot and killed in Sanford, Fla. Martin, who is black, had been visiting his father in a gated community. He left the townhouse to get a snack at a local convenience store. Martin was seen by George Zimmerman, a Neighborhood Watch captain, when he was returning from the store. Zimmerman called 911 to report a "suspicious" person. The dispatcher told Zimmerman to stop following Martin and that a police car would be dispatched.
When police arrived, Zimmerman was outside his car with a bloody nose. The "suspicous" 17-year-old was dead. Zimmerman said he shot the boy in self-defense.
Zimmerman, who is Hispanic, has not been charged because of a Florida law, known as the "stand your ground" law, that was expanded in 2005.
Prior to the law's passage, a person confronted with lethal force had a duty to attempt to retreat. "Retreat" was largely regarded as any attempt, including shouting a warning, to elude an attack. It should be noted that genuine self-defense - in any situation - is, and always has been, legal. An expansion of the statute was unnecessary but lawmakers were unwilling to oppose legislation sponsored by the National Rifle Association.
The retreat provision was removed. A person who is now confronted with deadly force or the perception of deadly force need not retreat.
If that sounds familiar, it should. Pennsylvania's Castle Doctrine law was expanded last year. It, too, removed the duty of someone who feels threatened in their home to retreat. It expanded the right of citizens to use deadly force outside their homes, in their vehicles, at their place of business or any other place they have a right to be if they believe the other person threatens them with deadly force or what they perceive to be deadly force.
But given the stress of the moment and the fact that many of these situations occur at night or in dimly lit conditions, reaching for one's keys could easily be construed as reaching for a weapon.
Law enforcement and prosecutors do not like the change in the law because they must prove that a shooting was not self-defense. That changes the entire nature of the investigation.
When the Florida legislature was considering expanding the law in 2005, critics warned that it would create a vigilante state in which people would shoot first and claim self-defense after.
That's exactly what's happening. The number of justifiable homicides in Florida has tripled since the "stand your ground" law was passed.
In the wake of the Martin shooting, Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican, has agreed that it may be time to take another look at the Florida law.
So, too, should Pennsylvania lawmakers.
We are an errant shooting away from a similar tragedy.
