SANFORD, Fla. - The embattled police chief overseeing the TrayvonMartin investigation said Thursday he will "temporarily remove" himself from his job amid mounting criticism and pressure to charge a neighborhood watch leader with killing the teenager.
A few hours later, the local prosecutor, Norman Wolfinger, stepped down from handling the case, and Gov. Rick Scott appointed another state attorney to handle the investigation.
Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee said that he stands by his department's initial investigation but that he is stepping aside to avoid being a distraction. The case has been drawing widespread national coverage amid claims that Trayvon, who is black, was a victim of racial stereotyping. 
"It is apparent that my role in this matter is overshadowing the process," Lee said at a news conference, adding that he felt he should remove himself from his post "in the hopes of restoring some semblance of calm to the city, which has been in turmoil for several weeks."
Wolfinger, the local state attorney, said in a letter to the governor that his recusal from the case was aimed at "toning down the rhetoric and preserving the integrity of the investigation." Scott  appointed Angela  Corey, the state attorney for the Jacksonville area, to take the case.
Trayvon, 17, was shot Feb. 26 as he was returning to a gated community after buying candy at a convenience store. The gunman, neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman, has not been charged and  said he shot the unarmed youth in self-defense.
The 911 calls paint a confusing picture  and it is unclear who was the aggressor  between Trayvon and Zimmerman. A 911 caller said  he saw a man on the ground screaming for help, according to a recording  on Sanford's municipal website.
The caller turned to hold back his dog and then he heard the gunshot and the screaming stopped.
Zimmerman, who police say is white but whose family says he is Hispanic, had been following the teen on foot and called the police department to report possible suspicious behavior. Zimmerman said he lost sight of Trayvon and was returning to his truck when he was attacked.
City Manager Norton Bonaparte  said a search would begin immediately for an interim chief. Before Lee's announcement, Bonaparte told USA TODAY that he would await the  investigations  by the Justice Department  and the Florida state attorney's office before deciding Lee's fate. "I want to know if there were things they should have done that they didn't do, or things they did that they shouldn't have done," Bonaparte said.
On Wednesday,  the Sanford City Commission voted  3-2 that it had "no confidence" in Lee.
NAACP President Benjamin Jealous said outside  City Hall that Lee "needs to step down, not just step aside."
Thousands of people gathered at a rally Thursday night in downtown Sanford, where many of the nation's best-known black activists demanded the arrest of Zimmerman.
"Zimmerman should have been arrested that night," said  Al Sharpton, president of the National Action Network. Among those with  Sharpton  were Martin Luther King III, activist  Dick Gregory  and former New York governor David Patterson.
Earlier this week, Lee said in an e-mail to USA TODAY there have been "assumptions and conclusions"  that are based on limited information.
The initial police report of the incident says an officer noticed that Zimmerman showed apparent signs of being in a struggle. "I could observe that his back appeared to be wet and was covered in grass, as if he had been laying on his back on the ground. Zimmerman was also bleeding from the nose and back of his head," the  report said.
Alcindor and Bello reported from McLean, Va. Contributing: The Associated Press. 
