De-claring that "if I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon," Pres-ident Obama chose a highly personal way to join the heated national debate over the death of TrayvonMartin, the black teenager shot to death by a neighborhood watch volunteer in Florida.
Obama took care to voice no opinion on the conduct of the shooter, George Zimmer-man, or any legal aspect of the case beyond a call for a thorough investigation. 
"The attorney general reports to me, so I've got to be careful about my statements to make sure that we're not impairing any investigation," he said.
It was a rare White House moment Friday - a president identifying himself with a victim in a racially charged shooting. More broadly, it drew attention to the way young black men are seen by a predominantly white society.
Whether Zimmerman acted legally in the Feb. 26 shooting and whether the Sanford, Fla., police acted properly in declining to arrest him turn in large part on how the victim is viewed.
Zimmerman, 28, has claimed he shot Martin, 17, in self-defense after he called police to say he was following a person in his gated community whom he believed was acting suspiciously. Supporters of Martin's family have said the high school student was merely walking through the neighborhood on his way to a relative's home and that nothing about him could reasonably have been considered suspicious or threatening.
Martin's parents appeared to acknowledge that Obama's public identification with their son carried huge symbolic importance.
"The president's personal comments touched us deeply," they said. The remarks "made us wonder: If his son looked liked Trayvon and wore a hoodie, would he be suspicious, too?"
U.S. Rep. Frederica Wil-son, D-Fla., who has been in close contact with the Martin family, expressed a view held by many black leaders, saying that being targeted for violence "is the reality of being a black boy in America."
"It's a problem that has existed for generations since slavery," she said, expressing the hope that Obama's remarks might change how black men are perceived.
"Every time the president is realistic about a situation, it helps the country grow and mature," she said.
Obama's comments were not written in advance, aides said, but they came after a week in which he has been closely following the case. During a trip to western states over the past two days, he read articles about the shooting and commented privately about how the teenager's family must feel, and how he would take such news if it ever came to his door.
On Thursday, Obama called the Rev. Al Sharpton, whose mother had died that day, to express condolences. Sharpton was on his way to a rally about the case that he had helped organize. Aides said they assumed the two men talked about the shooting, though Obama did not explicitly tell them so.
Initially, the president had hesitated to speak publicly about the shooting, concerned that he would appear to be trying to affect the outcome of the case, but over the week, his view shifted.
"He did not want to jeopardize the independent investigation," the official said, "but he also felt that we need to ask ourselves how this could happen."
On his way out to the Rose Garden on Friday morning to announce a nominee to head the World Bank, Obama told aides that he would comment on the case if asked about it - a contrast with his frequent practice of shunning questions in formal settings if they depart from the topic of the day.
He was "speaking as a parent," said the official. "He was very deeply troubled by the death of a very young man."
The comments shifted the White House position, which had been to keep a distance from the case.
Tuesday, for example, press secretary Jay Carney had said only that "we here in the White House are aware of the incident" and that "our thoughts and prayers go out to TrayvonMartin's family, but obviously, we're not going to wade into a local law enforcement matter."
By contrast, Obama said that "it is absolutely imperative that we investigate every aspect of this, and that everybody pulls together -- federal, state and local -- to figure out exactly how this tragedy happened." People should "examine the laws and the context for what happened, as well as the specifics of the incident," he said.
Republican presidential hopefuls joined Obama in his call for a thorough investigation.
"What happened to TrayvonMartin is a tragedy," Mitt Romney said in a written statement. "There needs to be a thorough investigation that reassures the public that justice is carried out with impartiality and integrity."
Campaigning at a shooting range in West Monroe, La., Rick Santorum called Martin's death a "horrible case."
"It's chilling to hear what happened," Santorum said. "The fact that law enforcement didn't immediately go after and prosecute this case is another chilling example of, I would say, the horrible decisions made by the people in this case."
