March 23--Let me go out on a limb here: George Zimmerman could get off.
Yes, Sanford's now infamous neighborhood watch captain-turned-vigilante fatally shot a black teenager whose only crime was hoping to enjoy the second half of the NBA All-Star Game with a bag of Skittles and a drink of iced tea.
Yes, law enforcement decided to do something in the face of national outrage. Florida Gov. Rick Scott and the U.S. Department of Justice are investigating. Even the county prosecutor finally convened a grand jury -- next month -- to probe the TrayvonMartin shooting. Too late to prevent the scorn heaped on Sanford, a sleepy central Florida community once known as the world's celery capital. 
What Zimmerman did, in my view, can't be explained without the words "bigot," "cold-blooded" and "killer" slipping into the conversation. The words I'd use to describe how the local state attorney's office and the town's answer to the Keystone Kops have handled the case would be much worse, so I won't. (I'm told the Keystone Kops analogy is inappropriate. They at least tried to solve their cases.) Zimmerman's still free; Martin's dead.
Besides shedding light on an ongoing reality that continues to plague young black men, the TrayvonMartin shooting also brought some much needed scrutiny to Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law, and what it reveals is the legal morass some legislators, police, prosecutors and, yes, pundits, warned back in 2005 when the idea sailed through the Legislature and was signed into law by then Gov. Jeb Bush.
Florida and at least 18 other states now have Castle Doctrine laws. What's seen as self-defense in one state may be grounds for a manslaughter indictment in another. Still, five years after the law's enactment, the number of justifiable homicides in Florida tripled, according to a Tampa Bay Times examination of Florida Department of Law Enforcement statistics.
Now police, prosecutors and judges must sort through the conflicting allegations and testimony to make the law work. Sometimes they get it right, but all too often the Stand Your Ground decisions raise eyebrows in both the court of law and public opinion.
The seven year-old law basically expands the time-honored legal doctrine, which permits people to use lethal force to protect themselves against intruders in their homes or automobiles, to just about anywhere where individuals have a right to be. The law allows the use of deadly force when a person " ... reasonably believes it is necessary."
For the record, I am no fan of "Stand Your Ground," but I understand the frustration of the law's proponents who rightfully argue Zimmerman went far beyond the bounds of the law when he ignored police warnings and confronted Martin.
Unfortunately the Zimmerman case, if or when it goes to court, could produce an unexpected result. Just this week a Miami Dade County circuit court judge threw out a case involving a man charged with second degree murder after chasing another man for more than a block before stabbing him to death. The reason for the surprising decision: the "Stand Your Ground" law.
So the controversy continues. The shooting is Topic A on most social media. Chicago, New York, Miami and Tallahassee have been home to rallies protesting the shooting, and a major demonistration led by civil rights activist-turned talk show host Al Sharpton took place in Sanford itself. For many, the anger is justified. For African Americans, the stakes are much higher -- survival, particularly for young men like Martin living in a society that too easily tolerates senseless death in the name of self-defense.
In the midst of the controversy, Gov. Scott promised a review of the law, which prompted a quick rebuke from people like National Rifle Association lobbyist Marion Hammer, who insists there's no problem with it. The governor should, pardon the pun, stand his ground.
The sentiment to separate Zimmerman from the law reminds me of another NRA mantra: "Guns don't kill, people do." Maybe so, but try telling that to those who knew TrayvonMartin.
Douglas C. Lyons can be reached at dlyons@sunsentinel.com, or 954-356-4638. On Twitter@douginflorida.
___ (c)2012 the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) Visit the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) at www.sun-sentinel.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
