March 26--KALAMAZOO -- One month has passed since the killing of Trayvon Martin, the unarmed Florida teenager who was shot by a volunteer neighborhood watchman as he walked to his dad's fiance's house.  So far, the watchman hasn't been charged or even arrested, sparking outrage and protests across the nation including in Kalamazoo, Monday. 
Hundreds of students marched the Western Michigan University campus, protesting Martin's killing and demanding the man who shot him, George Zimmerman, be held accountable.
People in cities across the nation held marches despite new evidence in the case that could show there's more to the story.
"There was no reason to approach that young man other than saying he fit a description or that he had some type of threat.  He had no type of threat," said Ra'jae Adams, a WMU student.
Many feel Zimmerman targeted Martin because he thought the teen's hooded sweatshirt looked suspicious.  Others feel race also played a roll since Martin was black and Zimmerman is Hispanic.
Two-hundred hoodie-clad students carried signs about skittles and iced tea, the only things the teen was carrying when Zimmerman shot him.
"It is very important to keep everyone aware, to let people know what's going on and to let people know how we feel when justice isn't served," said Ryan Gassaway, a WMU student.
"This is a movement," said Ashley Hampton, a WMU student.  "A child was killed unlawfully and justice has not been served.  The man who killed him is walking around freely."
The national outrage is due to the fact Zimmerman hasn't been arrested.  New details show there may be more to the story.
Martin was on a 10-day suspension from school and police found marijuana on him after his death.  Further, a police report leaked to the Florida media said Zimmerman told police Martin attacked him first, hitting him several times and knocking him down.  The same report said Zimmerman was bleeding when police arrived on scene.
Martin's family has called Zimmerman's story outrageous.
"We're not asking for an eye for an eye.  We're asking for justice, justice, justice," said Tracy Martin.
Police have maintained they can't arrest Zimmerman under Florida's "stand your ground" law, which allows people to defend themselves using deadly force if there is a reasonable fear of death of serious injury.  Meanwhile, Florida's governor has formed a task force to review the law in conjunction with the U.S. Justice Department.
___ (c)2012 WXMI-TV (Grand Rapids, Mich.) Visit WXMI-TV (Grand Rapids, Mich.) at www.fox17online.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
