Friends and supporters spoke out on Sunday on behalf of the neighborhood watch volunteer who shot and killed an unarmed teenager in Florida, saying he fears for his safety after receiving death threats. 
George Zimmerman, who has claimed he shot TrayvonMartin on Feb. 26 in self-defense, is staying at an undisclosed location after widely circulated death threats and word of a $10,000 bounty to find him, said legal advisor Craig Sonner, who said he would represent Mr. Zimmerman if charges are filed.
Fury over the shooting in the gated community of Sanford, Florida, of the 17-year-old boy, who was carrying an iced tea and a bag of Skittles candy, and the lack of an arrest or charges prompted demonstrations nationwide calling for authorities to take action.
On Sunday, Trayvon's supporters staged events at churches, where congregants were encouraged to wear hoodies, or hooded sweatshirts, like the one he was wearing when he was killed.
At Middle Collegiate Church in New York City, the minister and members of the congregation wore hoodies, pulling their hoods over their heads during prayers at a crowded service that made repeated reference to Martin's killing as a symptom of the discrimination felt by young black Americans.
Jacqui Lewis, the church's senior minister, gave a sermon in which she said people were "fed up with centuries of race-related hatred and fear in this country."
"We will not rest until this disease called racism is stamped out," she said, calling for Americans to mix more frequently with people from different backgrounds, ethnicities and cultures.
She asked congregants to mail packets of Skittles candy to the Sanford Police Department and post pictures of themselves on the Internet wearing their hoodies and holding signs saying: "I am not dangerous. Racism is."
Trayvon was shot dead after Mr. Zimmerman, 28, a white Hispanic neighborhood watch captain, believed the young man walking through the gated community looked suspicious.
Mr. Zimmerman followed him and an altercation ensued.
Friends of Mr. Zimmerman, who have not spoken to the media, said he was extremely upset about the shooting.
"I mean, he took a man's life and he has no idea what to do about it. He's extremely remorseful about it," said his friend Joe Oliver.
"What makes all these people who are threatening George any better than the person they think he is?" he added. "You've got all these people wanting to lynch the man, and they don't know the whole story.
"There are huge gaps that are being filled in and interpreted without evidence," he said.
A candlelight vigil was planned for Sunday evening in Sanford, where civil rights activist Jesse Jackson was slated to appear. A rally of Martin supporters was also planned in Seattle.
