Live coverage of the Republican presidential primary campaign as Rick Santorum leads the race for in Saturday's Louisiana primary 
10.15am: Good morning, it's Friday, a lovely day for politics. 
 here in New York and welcome to our live blog coverage. My colleague 
 starts us off with a survey of the latest developments:
[#xfffd] 
 - that's the prediction of the Democratic polling organization Public Policy Polling. Their poll has Santorum up 42%-28% over Mitt Romney.
[#xfffd] 
 - known to its enemies as Obamacare - regardless of whether the Supreme Court strikes the legislation down. You can read it here. In 2009, Romney penned an op-ed in the same paper on the same issue, urging Obama to look to Massachusetts as a model. This time around, Romney has streamlined his argument. He writes, "When I was governor of Massachusetts, we instituted a plan that got our citizens insured without raising taxes and without a government takeover. Other states will choose to go in different directions. It is the genius of federalism that it encourages experimentation, with each state pursuing what works best for them. ObamaCare's disregard for this core aspect of U.S. tradition is one of its most egregious failings."
[#xfffd] 
 Maybe she can turn to Mitt Romney, who helped take care of former rival Tim Pawlenty's presidential campaign debt.
[#xfffd] 
 In a powerful 41 second video posted yesterday, the Paul campaign suggests the growing concern over the child's toy might actually be less important than other "problems" facing the country right now. The ad asks the viewer, "Tired of the games? . . . Ron Paul 2012: A serious plan to restore America now."
10.22am: In an announcement at the White House moments ago, President Obama tapped Dartmouth President Jim Yong Kim to be the 
. Kim had not been widely named as a leading candidate for the post, but his selection was hailed as a creative and canny move by the president. Here's Slate economics writer Matt Yglesias:
I still wish the Obama administration had gone outside the box and tapped a non-American to lead the World Bank, but their actual selection Dartmouth President Jim Yong Kim seems like a very strong dark horse candidate. As a former director of the Department of HIV/AIDS at the World Health Organization he has some of the necessary experience with international organizations, and his general expertise in the field of public health and infectious diseases is rightly focused on the area where development assistance has the clearest track record of success and potential for future gains.
What's more, though he's lived in the United States since the age of 5, he was actually born in South Korea so there's at least a little crack in the door of the American monopoly on the Bank Presidency. Given that the developing world's two candidates for the job at the moment are coming from Africa and Latin America, nominating an Asian-American also seems like a potentially clever nod in the direction of Asia's rising importance in the global economy while maintaining the basic EU/US hegemony over the Bretton-Woods institutions.
10.31am: After announcing his pick for the new head of the World Bank, President Obama spoke about the case of 
 the black teen shot dead by a neighborhood watch zealot in Sanford, Florida. The shooter, George Zimmerman, was allowed to leave the scene of the killing and has not been arrested. My colleague 
 has the president's remarks:
Obviously this is a tragedy, we can only imagine what these parents are going through. And when I think about this boy, I think about my own kids and I think every person in America should be able to understand why it is absolutely imperative we investigate every aspect of this to find out exactly how this tragedy happened.
All of us have to do some soul searching to discover how something like this happened.
If I had a son he would look like Trayvon, and I think they (his parents) are right to expect that all of us as Americans will watch this with the seriousness it deserves and we will get to the bottom of this.
10.50am: Here is video of President Obama's remarks on the 
 case.
(h/t: TPM)
11.16am: Let's 
 (still plural) for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination. For once they're easy to find: All four are in Louisiana, campaigning away in advance of tomorrow's primary.
(Here's a stumper: When was the last time all four candidates were in one state together on the same day? Ron Paul is the tough one to pin down; remember he skipped Florida. Let's crowd source this: let us know in the comments when the last time was that the stars aligned this way and... and then we can all pat ourselves on the back.)
Mitt Romney got off to a quick start this morning by taking the stump and committing embarrassing dad moment No. 14,293. He dropped a "y'all" - and then stutteringly corrected himself and said he wasn't trying to pretend he was from Louisiana.
Will there be a tipping point, after which Romney's helpless inability to avoid these kinds of awkward moments will become sort of endearing?
After saying "Y'all,' Romney corrections himself: "Y'all. You all. I mean you all. I'm not trying to pretend like I'm from Louisiana."
- Ashley Parker(@AshleyRParker) March 23, 2012
11.29am: As for Rick Santorum, he's hosting a rally at Ouachita Sheriff's 
 in Monroe, La. The candidate is handling guns for the cameras. For better or for worse (let's just say for worse) this kind of posing has become the norm for American politicians courting the NRA vote.
But the optics are different this morning. Santorum is at a shooting range and talking about fundamental freedom while the president is at the White House talking about the killing of an unarmed kid by a zealot packing a legal concealed firearm.
A poignant juxtaposition - or maybe not; maybe just a meaningless accident of timing. But then someone in the audience at the firing range draws a connection that completes the circle - guns and politics and race and violence - urging Santorum preparing to fire at a target to "pretend it's Obama."
Politico's Juana Summers is there:
Santorum is shooting a 1911 Colt. Range master says "Well, it's not your first rodeo.". Someone here says "pretend its Obama."
- Juana Summers (@jmsummers) March 23, 2012
ABC's @arlettesaenz reports a woman just yelled "pretend it's Obama" while Santorum fires a gun at a shooting range in Louisiana.
- Katie Hinman (@khinman) March 23, 2012
11.38am:
 - a crowd member's comment, not the candidate's. Here's a picture of Santorum at the firing range.
Santorum has spoken before about his rules for managing or correcting an audience. In January a woman at a Florida Santorum event stood up and said of the president, "He is an avowed Muslim and my question is, why isn't something being done to get him out of our government?" Santorum responded: "Believe me ... I'm doing everything I can to get him out of the government.
Later Santorum explained why he hadn't corrected the woman.
"It's not my responsibility as a candidate to correct everybody who makes a statement that I disagree with," Santorum told reporters. "There are lots of people who get up and say stuff in a town hall meeting and say things that I don't agree with, but I don't think it's my obligation, nor should it be your feeling that it's my obligation to correct somebody who says something that I don't agree with."
12.06pm: Fellow Republicans have opened fire on 
 for his comments yesterday equating a vote for Mitt Romney to a vote for President Obama. Conservative blogger Ed Morrissey took Santorum to the woodshed in an animated post this morning:
It seems that Senator Santorum has forgotten the purpose of the Republican primary. It's to choose the most successful candidate to 
 It isn't to test a few candidates to see whether the goal of beating Obama is worth the bother. [emphasis in original]
Santorum devoted part of his stump speech in Louisiana this morning to beating back the notion that he would ever equate Mitt Romney and Barack Obama.
Santorum: "I would never vote for Barack Obama over any Republican and to suggest otherwise is preposterous."
- Ethan Klapper (@ethanklapper) March 23, 2012
You be the judge. Here's what Santorum said yesterday:
You win by giving people the opportunity to see a different vision for our country, not someone who's just going to be a little different than the person in there. If you're going to be a little different, we might as well stay with what we have instead of taking a risk with what may be the Etch A Sketch candidate of the future.
12.21pm: Well we've reached midday in our Friday politics coverage so let's 
. The game is we name a candidate and you say the first word that comes to mind.
The game may strike you as silly, but we defy you not to enjoy the results as recorded by the Washington Post / Pew Research when they played the game with a random sample of 1,009 adults. But first you go: First word that comes to mind for:
RomneySantorumGingrich Paul
OK now here are the results of the Washington Post / Pew poll. Read them here, but we also recommend that you click through to check out their chart of the top responses for each candidate, color-coded by whether they're positive or negative. For some reason there's a lot of negative this year. Top 5 responses for each candidate given in order of frequency.
Romney top 5: "no," "rich," "good," "Mormon" and "moderate."Santorum top 5: "conservative," "no," "good," "OK," and "crazy."Gingrich top 5: "old," "no," "idiot," "untrustworthy" and "smart."Paul top 5: "no," "old," "libertarian," "honest," and "crazy."
(h/t @politicalwire)
12.44pm: Rick Santorum has disavowed a remark made by an audience member at an event he was holding at a 
. "Pretend it's Obama," a woman in the crowd yelled as Santorum took firing practice.
"That's a very horrible and terrible remark and I'm glad I didn't hear it," Santorum told reporters after the event.
(h/t: Rosie Gray)
1.03pm: And now, 
.
ICouldntPossiblySay types:
Tom, you're doing a fine job but we're concerned about Richard Adams. Is he scouring the planet for the last remaining jars of that fake Vegemite stuff from New Zealand? (I think they actually call it Marmite, but calling it Marmite doesn't make it Marmite. Not genuine Marmite.)
Good question! We did see Richard last week and can gladly report that he appeared a vision of health and good humor. Not an unusual state of play for Mr. Adams, but heightened perhaps by the fact that he was about to head off on holiday - whether to his palatial Hamptons estate or another of his various international compounds is unclear - to return a week Monday. There was no mention of Marmite, thankfully. We hope that whatever he's up to proves extravagantly restful, because we have the feeling that it's going to be a humdinger of a summer/fall.
1.43pm: Newt Gingrich spokesman 
 turns on the media:
Our traveling press corp. so close to the ocean, yet I can't push them in.instagr.am/p/Iha6S-xZl-/
- R.C. Hammond (@rchammond) March 23, 2012
2.17pm:
 We posed the question earlier this week in a post about a poll that found (pdf) more Illinois Republicans (39%) say the president is a Muslim than say he is a Christian (24%). Poll respondents strongly motivated by ideology can give poll responses they don't really believe, Guardian forecaster Harry J Enten pointed out.
Anonymous poll respondents are one thing. But what about presidential candidates?
Newt Gingrich today said "the way" President Obama "behaves" makes people think he's Muslim. We assert that the president or any other politician's religion ought not be a matter for public mastication. May each person's soul take care of itself.
So anyway Newt Gingrich's current stump speech includes a line about how - well it is so wrong-headed in so many ways that it's tricky to paraphrase so we'll just quote him as Politico's Ginger Gibson does:
I have said publicly several times that I believe Obama is a Christian. He went to a Christian church for over 20 years. He was listening to the sermons. The fact is I take him at his word but I think it is very bizarre that he is desperately concerned to apologize to Muslim religious fanatics while they are killing young Americans while at the same time going to war against the Catholic Church and against every right to live Protestant organization in the country. I just think it's a very strange value system.
Gingrich was asked today about the polls that show voters think Obama is a Muslim. Gingrich was asked whether rhetoric like the above might be just the kind of horseshine that contributes to the misconception.
Gingrich responded:
Why does the president behave the way that people would think that? You have to ask why would they believe that? It's not cause they're stupid. It's because they watch the kind of things I just described to you.
Gingrich knows what he's doing here; he's working a political angle, digging into that wide area of suspicions some voters have about the president because they just do. Gingrich sees political gain in applying his knife to an area of the national spirit left raw from a decade of wars of words and of arms. So he does it.
3.13pm: Newt Gingrich press secretary 
 was our favorite presidential candidate spokesman for a hot minute today. Now he's out with this:
flack doubles down on newt's obama/islam comments RT @rchammond: as long as the President gives peope reasons to doubt - they will doubt.
- Alex Burns (@aburnspolitico) March 23, 2012
As a political professional RC Hammond doubtless sees this kind of thing as rather innocent verbal swordplay. In the context of the daily three-ring circus that is a presidential campaign, it may well be. "As long as President Obama gives people reason to doubt that he's a Christian, they'll doubt that he's a Christian" - that's all he's saying. No harm, no foul, right?
But in any context that is broader than this political race, RC Hammond's words flow into a churn of dark currents of national suspicion and historical pain. What the words do is apply pressure to prove one's religious membership with the majority and rejection of the minority.
No, we're not saying RC Hammond is proposing that the president be required to prove that he is a Christian. Because how would you prove that anyway and wouldn't just bringing up the notion be so evocative of certain miserable historical moments that no thinking person - not to mention the representative of a man who has put himself forward as a national leader - would go there?
Wait... no yes that's what RC Hammond is saying.
Is it November yet?
3.29pm: OK let's talk about 
 Here's a Huffington Post report on the Five Steamiest Passages in Arlen Specters's Memoir.
Specter's name has been bouncing around lately because Rick Santorum was very buddy-buddy with him when they were both Republican senators from Pennsylvania. That's bad because Specter switched to being a Democrat in 2009 because he realized he couldn't beat the Tea Party candidate that was ready to challenge him in the 2010 Republican GOP primary in PA. He lost anyway.
Friendships with and support for politicians who switch to the Democrats just does not fly with today's GOP. It's like there's some purity test with them.
No. 1 on the list of the Five Steamiest Passages in Arlen Specters's Memoir is 
:
I was in the whirlpool at the Senate gym in 2008, recovering from Hodgkin's, when Ted Kennedy came over and climbed into the bath. Kennedy was one of the Senate's giants, in many ways. It was as though a gigantic walrus had plunged into the sea, causing the level to swell. I'd never seen two men in the whirlpool before, but the tub was big enough for two or more. There was a sign that you had to shower before entering. I hadn't checked that out with Kennedy, but I had neither an objection nor compunction about his coming into the bath. We chatted.
(h/t: @daveweigel)
3.36pm: UPDATE to 
 story.
Arlen Specter ogles Palin: "She radiated sensuality. Her skirt rode above her knees -- not exactly short, but close." huff.to/GN5kgK
- Jon Ward (@jonward11) March 23, 2012
4.20pm: The implosion of 
. How else to think of the week since the candidate got demolished in the Illinois primary? As pressure has mounted on him to get out of the race, Santorum's discourse has become increasingly grandiose and his off-the-cuff remarks increasingly prickly.
This week Santorum started filling his speeches with overblown talk about the future of freedom and the American Revolution and the Civil War. On Thursday he recklessly equated a vote for Mitt Romney with a vote for President Obama. When asked about the line he scolded reporters for siding with Romney.
Santorum to press: "do your job." criticizes us for "buying into the Romney spin machine"
- Rosie Gray (@RosiePGray) March 23, 2012
The party establishment is calling on him to leave, and not too politely. Jeb Bush says it's time to unite behind Romney. Romney spokesman Ryan Williams labeled Santorum a #disgrace. Even a group whose support he might have thought he could count on, Tea Party founders FreedomWorks, got behind Romney. One can only imagine the pressure he's putting up with behind the scenes.
Rick Santorum knows what it's like to be unpopular. It's the position from which he has conducted his political career (although not his life: "Rick was a funny guy. He sported a bushy moustache for a time, wore Hawaiian shirts and smoked cigars"). For his unpopularity Santorum is loved and hated.
Now Rick Santorum is planning a miniseries called "Obamaville." Today his campaign released a teaser. It features a scene in which the heads of Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad and American President Barack Obama flicker on a television screen, one replacing the other.
This video has been produced by a candidate who is most likely on the way off the national political stage. It's offensive. But take it on its own terms, as a campaign blow against Barack Obama. Is it effective? Didn't McCain-Palin try this kind of thing in 2008? It didn't work then. Is this the GOP strategy in 2012?
Santorum, pretending he is Romney, releases an ad attacking Obama. youtu.be/DApjHZq9o7M
- Andrew Kaczynski (@BuzzFeedAndrew) March 23, 2012
4.49pm: In anticipation of further debate on potential threats posed by 
, we direct you to an investigation out today from Reuters' Tabassum Zakaria and Mark Hosenball, "Special Report: Intelligence shows Iran nuclear threat not imminent."
The United States, European allies and even Israel generally agree on three things about Iran's nuclear program: Tehran does not have a bomb, has not decided to build one, and is probably years away from having a deliverable nuclear warhead.
4.53pm: New polls out today show 
 with the lead in Wisconsin (46-33) over his Republican opponents and, for the first time, with 40% support among Republicans nationally.
5.15pm: My colleague 
 has a roundup of everything you need to know about the Supreme Court hearing on the Affordable Care Act (aka Obamacare) scheduled to begin Monday. The court is expected to rule on whether the provision of the law requiring Americans to carry health insurance is constitutional. It's a high-stakes hearing for the court and the president, not to mention the country. here's Chris:
There are a few things both sides agree on in the coming Supreme Court battle over Barack Obama's signature healthcare reforms. One of them is that it is likely to prove the most politically significant constitutional decision in years, and the outcome could shape the future of Obama's presidency. ...
The court will hear a challenge by the attorneys general of 26 states and private business interests who argue that the healthcare law violates the constitution and tramples on individual freedoms by requiring almost all Americans to buy health insurance.
With an election looming and the public sharply divided on the healthcare reforms, the hearings are the most politically loaded since the court handed George Bush the presidential election over Al Gore in 2000. They are also scheduled to be the longest in recent history with nearly six hours set aside to hear challenges to the law.
5.35pm: With that we're calling it 
. Thanks for reading and commenting. Here's some of what we saw today:
[#xfffd] 
 until his home state of Pennsylvania at the end of next month. Santorum is under pressure to exit the race and the tenor of his campaign is beginning to show it.
[#xfffd] 
 He's also polling ahead in Wisconsin, the one state that Santorum was thought to be competitive in in early April.
[#xfffd] 
[#xfffd] 
.
[#xfffd] 
[#xfffd] 
[#xfffd] 
 We just pity the poor shoppers who Google "marmite" and get linked to the Guardian politics live blog.
[#xfffd] 
 siff writes: "These Americans are crazy."
