A FLORIDA state prosecutor has joined the local police chief in stepping down over the decision not to arrest a neighbourhood watchman who shot dead an unarmed black teenager on his way home from a convenience store. 
Governor Rick Scott made the announcement after more than 10,000 people gathered in Stanford to protest at a "blatant disregard for justice" in the city's response to the killing of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin last month.
Civil rights leader Al Sharpton, whose TV show helped bring the killing to national attention, told the crowd: "Trayvon represents a reckless disregard for our lives that we've seen for too long. Investigate the entire police department now." 
Martin's father, Tracy, said: "We want an arrest, we want a conviction and we want him sentenced for the murder of my son."
Martin was killed on February 26 by volunteer warden George Zimmerman, 28, who claimed he shot in self-defence under Florida's "stand your ground" law that enables people to use deadly force when they believe they are in danger in a public place.
Some of the protesters carried signs saying: "100 years of lynching, justifiable homicide. Same thing." Others sold T-shirts that read: "Arrest Zimmerman." 
The case has reignited the debate over race in the US after the teenager was found to be carrying only some sweets called Skittles and a can of iced tea; witnesses reported that Zimmerman chased Martin through a housing estate. Zimmerman had called police to report a "suspicious guy" and followed him despite the dispatcher's advice not to do so. 
Zimmerman told police Martin attacked him after he had given up on chasing the teenager and was returning to his sport utility vehicle. Police say Zimmerman is white, his family say he is Hispanic. 
Bill Lee, chief of Stanford Police, said he was temporarily standing aside "to restore some semblance of calm to the city which has been in turmoil." He had suffered a "no confidence" vote from the city commission on Wednesday over his handling of the case. Governor Scott told reporters that state attorney Norman Wolfinger will step down and he had also formed a task force to review the "stand your ground" law in light of the shooting. 
Dubbed the "shoot first, ask questions later" law by critics, it is seen by some as encouraging vigilante justice. A Florida grand jury is considering whether there is enough evidence to press charges, and the US justice department has launched an investigation into the police handling of  the case. Nearly a million people have signed online petitions calling for  justice.
Last year another Sanford police chief had to resign after a white policeman's son was captured on video sucker-punching a black homeless man outside a bar.
