Sunday March 25, 2012
LENOX
What kind of country are we living in?
The apparent "in cold blood" murder of an innocent black teenager, minding his own business while returning from a convenience store in Sanford, Fla., reminds us of how many more miles we have to travel before achieving racial harmony.
The haunting tragedy of TrayvonMartin, 17, gunned down by an apparently racist "neighborhood watch captain," reflects the travesty of Florida's gun-crazed "legal" system. 
Justice must be served, although nothing can bring back the tall, sweet-faced youth who was wearing a hoodie and carrying only a snack and iced tea when confronted by George Zimmerman, 28, a white Hispanic who has been in trouble with the law.
As of this writing, Zimmerman remains in hiding; his father contends the young man grew up in a multi-racial, multinational home (a white father, a Peruvian mother) and harbors no racial animosity.
That's not what his 47 separate calls to 911 over the past year reflect -- the log shows multiple references to "suspicious-looking" blacks who had the temerity to be in the vicinity of the gated community unofficially patrolled by Zimmerman. A deleted, racist epithet from the 911 transcript in the Martin case indicates he may have been consumed by hatred of African-Americans.
Zimmerman ignored the 911 dispatcher's request to remain in his vehicle and not pursue young Trayvon, who is heard on the police tape and in a cell phone call to his girl friend crying, screaming and pleading for his life.
Truly heart-wrenching, a young life snuffed out for no reason.
From what we know, this is a potential hate crime and we can only hope a judge and jury will have the opportunity to sift the evidence and come back with a determination.
Much has been written about the absurd "Stand Your Ground" self-defense laws adopted by Florida and 20 other states that allow anyone who "feels" or "believes" he is being threatened to shoot first, ask questions later, and escape the consequences. The law reeks of the Wild West, and should be challenged up to the U.S. Supreme Court.
Although it took the national media several weeks to become interested in the Feb. 26 shooting, major credit goes to New York Times columnist Charles M. Blow, who described how Trayvon's father, who reported his son missing after he failed to return from the store, confirmed the death after police displayed a photo of the boy with blood pouring from his mouth.
Tracy Martin had to call the boy's mom, Sybrina Fulton. "He said that Troy was gone," Fulton told The Times.
On MSNBC, Tracy recalled how his son was "my main man, my hero. He saved my life, actually pulled me out of a house fire. He was 9 years old at the time. A 9-year-old kid saved his dad's life. And I wasn't there to save his life."
Trayvon had been suspended from high school the day before the shooting for non-violent behavioral issues, but had no criminal record and was carrying nothing that could have been used as a weapon. Zimmerman packed a 9-mm handgun. Trayvon was defenseless during the fatal altercation. Zimmerman, quickly released from custody after brief questioning, told Sanford police he was acting in self-defense.
As columnist Blow asked: Why did Zimmerman find Trayvon suspicious? Why did he pursue the boy when the 911 operator instructed him not to? Why did he get out of the car, and why did he take his gun when he did? How is it self-defense when you are the one in pursuit? Who initiated the altercation? Who cried for help? Did Trayvon's body show evidence of a struggle? What moved Zimmerman to use lethal force?
The case seems all about vigilante "justice" and racial profiling.
"As the father of two black teenage boys, this case hits close to home," Blow wrote. "This is the fear that seizes me whenever my boys are out in the world: that a man with a gun and an itchy finger will find them 'suspicious.' That passions may run hot and blood run cold. That it might all end with a hole in their chest and a hole in my heart. That the law might prove insufficient to salve my loss.
"That is the burden of black boys in America and the people that love them: running the risk of being descended upon in the dark and caught in the cross-hairs of someone who crosses the line."
President Obama said on Friday: "When I think about that boy, I think about my own kids. If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon. All of us have some soul-searching to do, to figure out how something like this happened."
NPR's Corey Dade wrote of "The Talk" African-American males get when they enter their teens: "I am a black man. This is one of the realities I have lived. My parents prepared me for it. To be sure, my parents taught me to transcend matters of race. However, they also gave me 'The Talk.'
"For other boys coming of age, parents may end it after a lecture about sex, drugs, alcohol or Internet porn. The rite for black boys often is more rigorous: We're also drilled on a set of rules designed to protect us against suspicions too often associated with the color of our skin."
Many Americans, black, white, mixed or other, share the fear that unless and until justice is done and the outrageous "Stand Your Ground" laws are overturned, the promise of America as "the land of the free and the home of the brave" remains just an empty slogan for too many of our citizens.
We all need to be having "The Talk."
Clarence Fanto is an Eagle staffer. He can be contacted by email atcfanto@berkshireeagle.com .
