THE EMBATTLED police chief of Sanford, Fla., stepped aside Thursday amid international condemnation of his refusal to arrest the man who shot TrayvonMartin.
"I am aware my role as leader of this department has become a distraction," Police Chief Bill Lee said in a brief statement. 
He said "temporarily removing" himself would restore a "semblance of calm to the city."
Lee is the second Sanford chief to step down in a racial furor in just 10 months: The previous chief was forced out after he didn't arrest a white cop's son who beat up a black homeless man.
Sanford city commissioners voted 3-2 Wednesday that they had lost confidence in Lee, who insisted there was no probable cause to arrest George Zimmerman, the Hispanic neighborhood watchman who killed Martin, an unarmed black 17-year-old, on Feb 26.
Lee's announcement came just hours before thousands rallied in the Orlando suburb, and did not mollify the angry crowd.
"We did not come here for a temporary leave of absence," said the Rev. Al Sharpton. "We came here for an arrest."
"Zimmerman should have been arrested that night," Sharpton told the teeming crowd.
"We cannot allow a legal precedent to be established in this city that allows anyone to kill us, tell any story he wants, and walk out with the murder weapon."
He was joined by most of the nation's leading civil rights activists and a raft of elected officials and pastors who donated more than $50,000 for the Martin family.
"You are our strength," Trayvon's father, Tracy Martin, told the crowd, which chanted "we want an arrest."
With national outrage over the killing still growing, Florida Gov. Rick Scott replaced the state attorney probing the case with a special prosecutor. He also said a task force would reexamine the state's controversial law that allows a person to shoot to kill if they say they feel threatened.
Zimmerman said Trayvon jumped him and claimed self-defense. Cops never took him into custody or tested him for drugs or alcohol - though they tested the teen's corpse.
Lee continued to say cops did the right thing even after it emerged that calls to 911 from worried neighbors captured the teen's desperate cries for help and a single gunshot.
Zimmerman can also be heard on tape telling a police dispatcher he was following the boy, who had gone out to buy candy wearing a hoodie on a drizzly Sunday night.
Though his voice is muffled and the tape scratchy, some believe they can make him out swearing about "coons" on the tape.
The police are accused of overlooking more evidence: even though they had the dead boy's cell phone, it was Trayvon's father who discovered by poring over phone records that his son was talking to his girlfriend moments before he died. The girlfriend confirmed that Trayvon said he was being followed and was scared.
Though he lost his mother late Wednesday, Sharpton said he had to come to the rally to support Trayvon's mother, Sybrina Fulton.
"My mother raised me to stand up for justice," he said. "Sons are supposed to bury their mothers. Mothers are not supposed to bury their sons."
hkennedy@nydailynews.com
