THE UNARMED black teenager killed by a white neighborhood watch volunteer in Florida sounded worried about a stranger following him just before he was shot, it was revealed Tuesday.
TrayvonMartin, 17, was on the phone with his girlfriend, when she overheard part of the fatal Feb. 26 encounter with George Zimmerman in a Sanford, Fla., gated community.
"I said, 'Run!' Trayvon said he not (sic) going to run," the girlfriend said in a 59-second audiotape played for reporters. 
"Next I heard Trayvon say, 'Well, what you following me for?' " said the 16-year-old girlfriend, whose name was not released.
She said she heard someone asking Trayvon, "What are you doing around here?"
"Next thing I heard, someone push Trayvon because (his) headset just fell," she said, explaining that the teen's cell phone cut off right before the deadly gunfire.
Lawyer Benjamin Crump, representing Trayvon's family, insisted the phone call contradicts Zimmerman's account of the shooting.
"This young lady connects the dots. She completely blows Zimmerman's absurd self-defense claim out of the water," said Crump, renewing demands for Zimmerman's arrest.
The latest twist in the case that has garnered national attention came as the Rev. Al Sharpton said he would go to Florida Thursday to demand justice for Trayvon's family.
"This family has only asked for justice," Sharpton said. "They've not called anybody names. They've acted in a dignified way. They deserve this nation's support, and we're coming to give it to them."
On Monday, the U.S. Department of Justice announced its Civil Rights Division has launched an investigation into the killing, and the FBI was monitoring the probe.
A Seminole County grand jury will convene April 10 to hear evidence in the case.
Trayvon was visiting family in the neighborhood when he was shot while walking back from a store, where he had bought a bag of Skittles.
In a 911 call before the shooting, Zimmerman, 28, told a dispatcher that he was following "a real suspicious guy" who had "something in his hand." The dispatcher told Zimmerman to stop following the teen.
Moments later, another 911 call from a neighbor captures someone screaming for help and a single gunshot.
Trayvon's father said he believed the pleas for help were his son's last words.
While Zimmerman told cops it was him yelling for help, Trayvon's father, Tracy Martin, said the voice sounded like his son.
"It's heart-wrenching, because those actually were my son's last words," Tracy Martin told CNN Tuesday. "And to hear his last words being cries of help, is devastating. It tears me apart as a father."
whutchinson@nydailynews.com
Graphic: Timeline
Feb. 26 Trayvon found shot to death on Twin Trees Lane in a Sanford, Fla., gated community.
Feb. 27 Police identify George Zimmerman as the neighborhood watch volunteer who shot Trayvon.
March 8 Trayvon's father, Tracy, holds press conference demanding Zimmerman's arrest and saying, "We feel justice hasn't been done."
March 10 New Black Panther Party members rally outside Sanford Police headquarters to call for justice for Trayvon.
March 13 Sanford police complete their investigation without arresting Zimmerman and turn the case over to the Florida state attorney's office.
March 14 Witness Mary Cutcher rejects Zimmerman's claims of self-defense and reveals cops took only a short statement from her after the shooting and ignored her followup calls.
Thursday Zimmerman's father insists his son is not a racist and did not "follow or confront" Trayvon.
Friday --911 calls released in which Zimmerman acknowledges following Trayvon and is told by a dispatcher to stop. Another call includes the sound of someone screaming for help, followed by a gunshot.
Tuesday --It's revealed that Trayvon was on the phone with his girlfriend moments before he was shot and he expressed concerns about being followed by a stranger.
