A NEIGHBOURHOOD watch co-ordinator who shot dead an unarmed black teenager and escaped arrest under a controversial self-defence law is to face investigation in a case that has provoked outrage throughout America.
George Zimmerman, 28, claimed self-defence after shooting dead 17-year-old TrayvonMartin in the Florida city of Sanford, near Orlando. The state has some of the most relaxed self-defence laws in the country, and police apparently took Mr Zimmerman at his word when he said he feared for his life.
The police failed to talk to Trayvon's 16-year-old girlfriend, who came forward to say that she was speaking on the telephone to him moments before the shooting, and heard him say he was being followed and was frightened. 
She told him to run, but instead heard Mr Zimmerman challenge Trayvon, who had been to a nearby 7-Eleven shop to buy a packet of Skittles sweets for his younger brother, asking his name and to explain what he was doing in the area.
The police also failed to carry out any forensic analysis of Mr Zimmerman's clothes.
The teenager's death has led to accusations of racism.
Black public figures including the film director Spike Lee and members of Congress have led a national campaign calling for Mr Zimmerman's arrest and Trayvon's family say the shooting on Feb 26 would have been investigated further had the victim been white.
Hundreds of people have taken part in protests outside the Florida prosecutors' office and 500,000 have signed an online petition calling for Mr Zimmerman to be investigated.
Tracy Martin, Trayvon's father, said: "Can't be self-defence. No way. What's he gonna attack him with? A pack of Skittles? It's like my heart's been snatched out. This guy went home that night and was able to sleep in his bed and that says a lot about the Sanford police department."
The US Justice Department is to open a civil rights inquiry after the Congress Black Caucus described the lack of a proper police investigation as racially motivated.
Other officials scrambled to respond to the rising outrage. Florida's state attorney's office said it was reviewing the decision not to prosecute, the FBI began an investigation into the case, and it was announced yesterday that a grand jury hearing would be held next month.
Mr Zimmerman has a history of calling the police to complain about intruders at his gated community, reportedly phoning for help 46 times since 2001.
Local residents say he took seriously his responsibilities as neighbourhood watch captain, patrolling the estate and warning them to be on their guard against intruders.
A 911 emergency call he made on the night of the killing shows that the police told him not to follow the person he alleged was an intruder, who he described as "this real suspicious guy".
He went on: "This guy looks like he's up to no good or he's on drugs or something.
He's got his hand in his waistband ... and he's a black male."
Florida operates a Stand Your Ground Law, which gives immunity to those who fight back in self defence. In a statement earlier this month, Sanford police said they had no evidence to doubt Mr Zimmerman's version of events, giving him protection under the law.
Stand Your Ground is no defence, however, against a pre-emptive attack, and the Martin family say the fact that Mr Zimmerman ignored police instructions to remain in his car, combined with the girl's evidence that she heard Trayvon being confronted, should have prompted a criminal investigation.
Mr Zimmerman's family say he is also from a minority background - Hispanic - is not racist, and has a number of black friends.
