The U.S. Justice Department has opened an investigation into the fatal shooting last month of an unarmed black Florida teenager by a crime-watch volunteer, a case that has set off a national outcry. 
Seven years after Florida adopted a sweeping self-defense law, the shooting of an unarmed black teenager has put that law at the center of an increasingly vocal debate over how he was killed and whether law enforcement officials have the authority to charge the man who killed him.
The law, called Stand Your Ground, is one of 21 self-defense laws in the United States, many of which were enacted in the past few years. The National Rifle Association, a major advocate for gun rights in the United States, had pushed heavily for the Florida law, while law enforcement officers had vigorously opposed it.
The Stand Your Ground law gives the benefit of the doubt to a person who claims to have killed in self-defense, regardless of whether the killing took place on a street, in a car or in a bar. In more restrictive laws, the standard for self-defense is generally for a killing to take place in one's home. 
In Florida, if people feel they are in imminent danger of being killed or badly wounded, they do not have to retreat, even if it would seem reasonable to do so. Instead, they have the right to ''stand their ground'' and to protect themselves.
That is the question at issue in the present case: Was the gunman, George Zimmerman, 28, a crime watch volunteer in Sanford, Florida, in imminent danger and acting in self-defense during his encounter with the 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, as he asserts?
In the three weeks since Trayvon, a high school student from Miami with no criminal record, was killed, public protests across Florida and the United States have grown larger and louder, and so have calls for Mr. Zimmerman's arrest. The Police Department in Sanford said that under the Stand Your Ground law in Florida, it had no call to act against Mr. Zimmerman.
But late Monday, the U.S. Department of Justice said it had opened an inquiry into the shooting. That investigation will run parallel with one announced Tuesday by the state attorney in Seminole County, Florida, who said a grand jury would be convened. State attorneys often use grand juries in cases where they cannot make a clear independent call, or when a case is deemed explosive.
In recent days, Trayvon's parents, Tracy Martin and Sybrina Fulton, have issued pleas for law enforcement officers to take action, and social media campaigns, led by the advocacy Web site change.org, have pushed for the U.S. justice system to act. Celebrities including the actor and director Spike Lee and the singer John Legend have joined the effort.
The Rev. Al Sharpton, a well-known civil rights advocate who has said he will attend a rally in Sanford this week, said he was planning to raise awareness about the Florida law, which he characterized as encouraging vigilante justice. ''People can't take the law in their own hands,'' he said.
On Tuesday evening in Sanford, hundreds of people gathered at the Allen Chapel A.M.E. Church as community leaders and residents gave testimonials of police harassment and as representatives of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People criticize the Stand Your Ground law. The spirited crowd called for the arrest of Mr. Zimmerman and the ouster of Sanford's police chief.
''The line has been drawn in the sand,'' said Turner Clayton, head of the Seminole County N.A.A.C.P. office.
Benjamin Crump, a lawyer representing Trayvon's parents, said at a news conference Tuesday that Trayvon had been speaking to his girlfriend on his cellphone minutes before he was shot and killed, and that Trayvon had told her that a man was following him.
Trayvon then told his girlfriend that he was being confronted, Mr. Crump said, and when she told him to run, he said he would ''walk fast.''
Trayvon was headed at the time to the home of his father's girlfriend after going to a convenience store, and he was carrying Skittles candy and a can of iced tea.
''Why are you following me?'' Mr. Crump said Trayvon had asked. The girlfriend then heard a faraway voice ask, ''What are you doing around here?'' Mr. Crump said.
Trayvon's voice then fell away.
''She completely blows Zimmerman's self-defense claim out of the water,'' Mr. Crump said of the girlfriend's description of the conversation.
Mr. Zimmerman had reported a ''suspicious'' person to emergency services shortly before the encounter, saying a black male had been checking out the houses in the area and had been staring at him. Mr. Zimmerman, who had studied criminal justice, often patrolled the neighborhood. He had placed 46 calls to the 911 emergency call system in 14 months, for reports including open windows and suspicious persons.
In his call to 911 on Feb. 26, Mr. Zimmerman, using an expletive and speaking of Trayvon, said they ''always get away.''
The 911 dispatcher told Mr. Zimmerman not to get out of his car and said that police officers were on their way. But Mr. Zimmerman was already outside and a dispute began. He told the police that Trayvon had attacked him and that he had fired in self-defense.
Trayvon's parents say that they are sure they can hear Trayvon pleading for his life on the recording of the call to 911. Several witnesses who heard the encounter agree it was Trayvon who was screaming, but Mr. Zimmerman told the police that it was his own voice they heard.
The police said they had found no evidence to dispute Mr. Zimmerman's claim of self-defense. Without that, the Stand Your Ground law makes it hard to make an arrest, and for prosecutors to charge and bring to trial. The state attorney is now in charge of the case and is being assisted by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.
When asked about the law at a news conference Tuesday, Governor Rick Scott of Florida said that he did not think the law was unfair but that it merited a close look. ''Anytime we see something like that, we have to review and make sure we're not giving people the opportunity to use the law unfairly,'' he said. ''You want to do everything you can to make sure this doesn't happen again.''
Prosecutors in Florida say that the number of defendants who claim self-defense had increased noticeably since the Stand Your Ground law was passed in 2005. It has been used judiciously and fairly in many cases, when self-defense was clear, but other cases have left prosecutors scratching their heads.
''Self-defense is now used more widely than it was under the old law,'' said William Eddins, the state attorney in Pensacola, Florida, and president of the Florida Prosecuting Attorneys Association.
''It is a very broad law in terms of the availability of the defendant to try to take advantage of this law,'' Mr. Eddins said. ''It has created more litigation for the state in cases involving violence and in murder cases, in particular.''
The law also prevents a person shooting in self-defense from being sued.
Willie Meggs, the state attorney in Tallahassee, Florida, who fought the law when it was proposed, said: ''The consequences of the law have been devastating around the state. It's almost insane what we are having to deal with.''
It is increasingly used by gang members fighting gang members, drug dealers battling drug dealers and people involved in road rage encounters. Claims of self-defense are also common during confrontations at a bar, when someone looks at another person the wrong way or bothers someone's girlfriend.
Under the old law, a person being threatened with a gun or a knife had a duty to try to get away from the situation, if possible. Now that person has a right to grab a gun (or knife, or ice pick, as happened in one case) and use it, without an attempt to retreat.
Mr. Meggs said he had lost a case on appeal that was clearly not a shooting in self-defense. The defendant, who was in a car, could have driven away. The man who was shot was unarmed but had angered the defendant earlier in the night, and then he had leaned into the car.
It happens with rival gangs, too. ''It puts us in a posture that, if you and I had words, and I said get your gun and I will meet you on the street, we can have a shootout in the street and the winner is standing his ground,'' Mr. Meggs said.
Investigating the cases, prosecutors say, is time-consuming. ''You have to be very careful and very thorough,'' Mr. Eddins said.
Unless there are reliable witnesses and clear-cut physical evidence, the self-defense homicide cases are often murky and hard to sort out, prosecutors say. The gunman's side of the story usually prevails because the person who was shot is not alive to challenge the claim. So rather than let a jury decide a self-defense case, which is mostly what happened under the old law, prosecutors sometimes drop it.
''The person who is alive always says, 'I was in fear that he was going to hurt me,''' Mr. Meggs said. ''And the other person would say, 'I wasn't going to hurt anyone.' But he is dead. That is the problem they are wrestling with in Sanford.''
An article on March 22 about a Florida self-defense law, known as Stand Your Ground, misstated the time period in which George Zimmerman made 46 calls to 911. The calls were made over the course of about eight years, not over 14 months.
