Free Speech: Some want "hate speech" measures silencing talk radio's voices of freedom. That would mean a chilling return to the left-leaning major media's monopoly on the flow of information. 
On MSNBC last week, Democratic Party strategist Karen Finney blamed talk radio king Rush Limbaugh for the fatal shooting last month of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin by a neighborhood watch captain in a mixed neighborhood in Florida.
Limbaugh, along with Republican presidential candidates Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum and Mitt Romney, "reinforce and validate old stereotypes that associate the poor and welfare as criminal behavior with African Americans and people of color, calling us lazy, undeserving recipients of public assistance," Finney said.
In the TrayvonMartin incident, Finney claimed "those festering stereotypes had lethal consequences."
One might ask how Finney knows that Martin's half-Peruvian killer, George Zimmerman (whose photo suggests he's a person of color himself), listens to Limbaugh or has been affected by the candidates' speeches.
As in ex-Rep. Gabby Giffords' shooting last year, this is a case of a Democratic mouthpiece accusing foes of their big-government schemes of murder. So much for President Obama's call for civility in political discourse.
But Finney is just one manifestation of a new war aiming to silence Limbaugh and like-minded talk radio hosts. After Limbaugh several weeks ago used rude words to describe a Georgetown law school feminist activist who wants taxpayers to finance her contraception, the Los Angeles city council last week entered the realm of government censorship of the airwaves.
By 13-to-2 vote the L.A. City Council called on "management of radio and television stations in Los Angeles to do everything in their power to ensure that their on-air hosts do not use and promote racist and sexist slurs over public airwaves in the City of Los Angeles."
Meanwhile, the George Soros-funded Media Matters is spending a fortune on radio ads in Boston, Chicago and other cities to intimidate Limbaugh's advertisers.
Who decides what's "racist" or "sexist"? The Gingrich comment Finney considered "dangerous," for instance, described how liberal welfare policies hurt minorities.
The left isn't targeting "hate," but rather intellectual challenges to their big-government policies.
