Tom Jackson
tjackson@tampatrib.com
Once again, a personal dispute is settled with gunfire. Once again, an unarmed victim is eulogized and buried. And once again, Florida's 7-year-old "Stand Your Ground"law is going on trial. Only this time, the test will come in the national court of public opinion.
This unlikely turn of events leaves a bewildered Arthur Hayhoe -- you remember him -- scratching his smooth scalp. Why this particular episode? "I've got eight others in my files just like it," Hayhoe says. "Each of them stayed local. They were reported in the local papers, but ... they never went any further. 
"What happened that made this one catch fire and go national, I can't say. But it sure took off."
Not that Hayhoe is complaining. While others manage their fresh sorrow and outrage, Hayhoe glimpses, finally, a competitive advantage. The longtime gun-control activist from Wesley Chapel was laboring in the Second Amendment wilderness well before the Legislature passed, in 2005, the landmark statute eliminating the obligation to retreat in the face of a threat, and there were long stretches when his work seemed hopeless.
Stand Your Groundextends provisions of the castle doctrine -- the principle that provides for the use of deadly force at home or in your place of business -- to public places. People who are where they have a legal right to be may respond to perceived physical harm with extreme violence.
Early on, Hayhoe and others in the gun-control community had counted on a series of unforeseen circumstances and sympathetic victims to trigger a wave of public disgust sufficient to swamp the objections of the National Rifle Association and its Florida chief, Marion Hammer.
Dismayed, Hayhoe stopped cataloging news clips when the number of Stand Your Ground cases acrossthe state reached 100 -- Pasco contributed a half-dozen -- without the slightest shift in the law's enormous favorability ratings and, consequently, no repeal in sight.
Then, on Feb. 26, George Zimmerman, the 28-year-old captain of a neighborhood watch program in a gated community in Sanford, shot and killed 17-year-old TrayvonMartin. Predictably -- "They must teach this in concealed weapons permit classes," Hayhoe says -- Zimmerman told authorities he had struggled with Martin, and he felt threatened.
"I felt threatened -- those are the NRA's magic words," Hayhoe says. In the absence of witnesses to dispute Zimmerman's account, he says, the plain language of the statute presents an impossible lift for prosecutors. "It can't be challenged in any court in Florida."
If he'd been predicting, Hayhoe would have said that was that. Wait. White shooter, black victim? Like the man says, he has eight others in his files. Besides, as much as he detests the law, even Hayhoe admits it was race-neutral in its writing, and has proved race-neutral in its application.
Here's the thing: Tracey Martin and Sybrina Fulton, Trayvon's parents, weren't having it. The shooting of TrayvonMartin flamed into a social media conflagration and snared the attention of traditional media. Now the feds are investigating, and a Seminole County grand jury will have a look.
What this means for the Legislature's 2013 docket remains anybody's guess. Speaker-designate Will Weatherford, R-Wesley Chapel, scheduled to set the agenda, says it's early. "Let's recognize that the family is grieving the loss of their young man," Weatherford says. "Let's wait to see the facts of the case, to see if there's a policy issue here. We just don't know yet."
John Legg, the Republican Port Richey representative and state senate candidate, is similarly wary. "Let the facts play themselves out," he says. "Let's not write law based solely on what CNN and ABC report."
That suits Hayhoe, who is renewed and eager to be entertaining in the campaign season ahead. Hear him sharpening his argument on the strop of this cause celebre. The Legislature "wanted a shoot-first society," he says, "and now they've got one."
Rebuttal?
tjackson@tampatrib.com
(813) 371-1851
Facebook: Tom Jackson Tampa Tribune
Copyright  2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com
