The entire country is talking about what happened to a 17-year-old Florida teen, shot dead while walking back from the store with an iced tea and a bag of Skittles in hand.
Trayvon Martin and his father were visiting his dad's fiance, who lived in a gated community in Sanford, Fla., outside of Orlando last month when a self-appointed Neighborhood Watch captain, George Zimmerman, saw Martin and called police to report a "suspicious" man.
From the 911 tapes: 
Zimmerman: "We had some break-ins in our neighborhood ... and there is a real suspicious guy. ... This guy looks like he's up to no good, he's on drugs or something. It's raining, and he's walking around looking about."
Dispatcher: "Is this guy white, black, Hispanic?"
Zimmerman: "He looks black."
Dispatcher: "Did you see what he's wearing?"
Zimmerman: "A dark hoodie, gray hoodie, jeans or sweatpants or white shoes. He's walking around staring at the houses. Now he's just staring at me."
Dispatcher: "Location?"
Zimmerman: "He's near the clubhouse right now. Now he's coming towards me. He has his hands in his waistband. He is a black male. Something's wrong with him. Yep. He's coming to check me out. He's got something in his hands. I don't know what his deal is. Send officers over here."
Then, directions to the police to find the young man.
Zimmerman: "He's running ... down towards the other entrance of the neighborhood."
More back and forth, then:
Dispatcher: "Are you following him?"
Zimmerman: "Yeah."
Dispatcher: "OK. We don't need you to do that. What's your name?"
Zimmerman: "George. Zimmerman."
At the same time Zimmerman was calling 911, Martin was talking to a girl on his cellphone. From her, we hear a different turn of events. Martin told her that someone was following him. She told him to run, but Martin said he would walk quickly instead. According to the girl, Zimmerman caught up with him. Martin asked Zimmerman why he was being followed. Zimmerman asked the young man's name. The girl says she heard Zimmerman push Martin, but then the call dropped. She tried calling back. No answer.
Other calls flooded in to 911, neighbors asking for help because they had heard an altercation and then a shot. They reported screams for help. They reported a man down, another man with a flashlight. Some saw a man with a white T-shirt on top of another person. Police arrived, and Zimmerman told police he acted in self-defense. Self-defense after stalking a young man for no reason. Self-defense from a man with a gun. Self-defense from the person who started the confrontation. The police took Zimmernan's word, did not arrest him and took Martin to the morgue. They didn't even bother to try to find his family by calling numbers on his phone. Police drug-tested the victim, but not his killer.
The world is outraged. Sadly, bringing the self-admitted shooter to justice will not be easy. Florida's stand-your-ground law allows a person who feels threatened to kill, with almost no questions asked. That is why police say they let Zimmerman go. Still, people are not accepting that reasoning. When local authorities said they believed Zimmerman's story of self-defense, the cry for justice became so loud that the U.S. Department of Justice and FBI decided this week to investigate. The case also has been referred to a state grand jury, scheduled to convene April 10.
Other questions need to be answered. Neighborhood Watch guidelines forbid the carrying of guns -- why did Zimmerman have a 9mm pistol? Why did Zimmerman not heed the dispatcher's warning not to follow Martin? Over everything is this question: Why does Florida have a law that allows murderers to claim self-defense so easily? And as Martin's parents argue so poignantly, why is their son's killer loose on the street? Even with Florida's invitation-to-shoot law, Zimmerman could be arrested and charged. Let a judge and jury decide.
For those of us in New Mexico, there is this to ponder. The stand-your-ground law is hardly unique to Florida -- it was pushed by the National Rifle Association there and exists in 16 other states. Those of us in states without such laws must be vigilant before the vigilantes rule our streets and walking while black -- or brown -- becomes a capital offense.
