Police chief steps aside amid outrage By Raf Sanchez in Washington DEADLY FORCE: TrayvonMartin, left, and George Zimmerman.
Underbelly of racism - Page 23 The death of TrayvonMartin has reignited the debate over race in the United States as thousands of protesters took to streets across the country and black members of Congress accused the Sanford Police Department of a "blatant disregard for justice". 
The 17-year-old was killed by George Zimmerman, a volunteer warden, as he returned from the shops carrying a packet of Skittles and a can of iced tea.
Mr Zimmerman, a mixed race Hispanic, said he opened fire in self-defence after the teenager attacked him but growing evidence from witnesses and 911 tapes suggests that the older man chased him through the gated housing estate where his father lived.
In the face of national outrage, Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee last night said he was temporarily stepping aside "to restore some semblance of calm to the city which has been in turmoil for several weeks".
Mr Lee said he stood by his officers' decision not to arrest of charge Mr Zimmerman, 28, but admitted he had become "a distraction" in the investigation.
Police have repeatedly said that under Florida's controversial "Stand Your Ground" law, which entitles citizens to use lethal force if they are in fear of grievous bodily harm, they had no grounds to move against Mr Zimmerman. Mr Martin's family claim that detectives decided to allow Mr Zimmerman to return home just hours after the killing because the victim was black.
Speaking last night before a rally organised with civil rights leader Reverend Al Sharpton Mr Martin's father Tracy said the chief's resignation was not enough.
"This temporary step down of Bill Lee is nothing," he told a large, chanting crowd in Sanford.
"We want an arrest, we want a conviction and we want a sentence for the murder of our son."
Many of those gathered at the rally held placards reading, "No more lynching".
Earlier, Mr Martin and other family members met officials from the Department of Justice who have opened a federal investigation into the killing.
The state attorney, whose office took control of the local investigation from Sanford police, said a grand jury would be convened on April 10 to decide what, if any, charges should be brought against Mr Zimmerman.
The investigation now centres around Mr Zimmerman's call to police after spotting Mr Martin on the night of February 26 and an account by the teenager's girlfriend, who was on the phone to him shortly before his death.
Mr Zimmerman told an operator that Mr Martin seemed "up to no good, or he's on drugs" and appears to have pursued him even when police told him that was unnecessary.
He said that Mr Martin attacked him from behind.
The Daily Telegraph, London
