March 22--What if the roles were reversed? What if George Zimmerman died and Trayvon Martin claimed self-defense after a street fight? Or if a gun-toting black adult shot and killed an unarmed light-skinned teen walking home from a store with candy?
Among South Florida blacks I spoke with on Wednesday, the feeling was unanimous. 
"If it was a black guy who shot a white kid, he'd be arrested on the spot," said Juwan Morgan, 15, of Fort Lauderdale, a sophomore at South Broward High in Hollywood.
"He'd have been thrown in jail -- quickly," said Cynthia Burrows, 57, president of the Northwest Federated Woman's Club of Broward.
"The whole thing is wrong -- but it's been like this forever," said laborer Russo Durocher, 21, outside a northwest Fort Lauderdale convenience store.
Martin, 17, of Miami Gardens, was visiting his father in central Florida when he was shot dead Feb. 26 by neighborhood watch volunteer Zimmerman. Nearly a month later, anger and protests keep building. Zimmerman has not been arrested or charged after claiming self-defense under Florida's controversial "stand your ground law."
The anger is especially pronounced among blacks, who say a double standard is at work. Martin was black; Zimmerman is Hispanic, according to his father.
"It's incendiary -- everyone's talking about it," said Burrows.
"He should be in jail, but they don't even know where the guy (Zimmerman) is," said Edde Campbell, 68, of Fort Lauderdale. "He might be long gone."
"Race is the elephant in the room," said Benjamin Crump, an attorney for Martin's family, who held a Fort Lauderdale news conference this week. Crump said Sanford police treated Zimmerman with deference, not bothering to test him for drugs or alcohol after the shooting and eagerly accepting his self-defense claims.
Burrows said she was chilled by the police tape where Zimmerman said Martin, who was wearing a hoodie, was "up to no good."
"I think (Zimmerman) made up his mind to go after him," Burrows said.
She said she fears for her 11-year-old stepson, who is big for his age. "If he's not smiling, he can look menacing," Burrows said. "I try to impress on him to not dress with those sloppy pants, big shirts or skullcaps. When we were growing up we were taught how to avoid confrontations. Today they call it fitting in, but we called it survival."
Juwan Morgan said his mother worries for his safety. A member of his school's baseball team, he said he was once "almost arrested" at a Burger King because he matched the description of a robbery suspect. "I was carrying my baseball bag," he said.
Thelma Robinson, 68, of Fort Lauderdale said her grandsons, 21 and 20, have been pulled over by police "many times, for no good reason," once subjected to drug-sniffing dogs. She doesn't understand how someone can pursue and shoot an unarmed teen and not be arrested. "I'm getting fed up," she said.
Said Burrows: "We know the justice system can work. We just want it to work for us."
mmayo@tribune.com, or 954-356-4508.
___ (c)2012 the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) Visit the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) at www.sun-sentinel.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
