A scandal that began with an act of vigilantism is threatening to breed more of the same, after a weekend of escalating tension saw militant activists announce a $10,000 (6,300) reward for the "capture" of black teenager TrayvonMartin's killer. 
George Zimmerman, a neighbourhood watch volunteer who followed and then shot the unarmed boy, had the bounty publicly placed on his head during a protest in Sanford, the Florida town where Trayvon died.
It was announced by Mikhail Muhammad, leader of a small militant organisation called the New Black Panther Party, who said he was seeking up to 10,000 black men willing to form a militia to find Mr Zimmerman and administer what they regard as justice.
Asked if he was inciting violence, Mr Muhammad said: "An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth." To cheers from followers, who wore black uniforms, he promised: "If the government won't do the job, we'll do it."
His comments were denounced by mainstream civil rights campaigners. Jesse Jackson, who preached at a Baptist church in Sanford yesterday, called it a "diversion," telling reporters: "I think disciplined, persistent, non-violent action works." They nonetheless highlight the increasingly-polarised nature of the controversy surrounding Trayvon's death.
The 17-year-old, who was shot on 26 February, was remembered during protests in Los Angeles, Washington, Chicago, New York and several other American cities over the weekend.
Demonstrators wore hooded tops and carried bags of Skittles, the brand of confectionery Trayvon was carrying during his fatal journey from a local convenience store to the home of his father's girlfriend, in a community called The Retreat at Twin Lakes.
Supporters of Mr Zimmerman, who claims to have killed Trayvon in self-defence, began publicly lobbying on his behalf. Joe Oliver, a "family friend" who appeared on ABC television yesterday, said that he "couldn't stop crying" about the incident and now fears for his life.
Mr Oliver, who is mixed-race, was accompanied by Craig Sonner, Mr Zimmerman's lawyer. Both men vigorously denied that their friend is racist.
Records show that Mr Zimmerman called emergency services almost 50 times in the past year to report suspicious activity in his neighbourhood.
