From the Olive Street Baptist Church in Sanford, Fla., to New York's Union Square, last month's fatal shooting of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin has tapped into a deep vein of distrust among African Americans. 
At the Baptist church in Martin's hometown, stories of violence and hurt poured out from other black mothers and grandmothers. The Internet was alive with a Change.org petition demanding justice for the slain youth. Hundreds marched in Manhattan on Wednesday and rallied in Sanford on Thursday to protest the killing.
How could it be otherwise?
Throughout the nation's history, black men, women and children have been targeted, beaten, lynched and shot, often for a wrong word or look or just being in the wrong place. Police seldom bothered to investigate.  Most died in obscurity.
Once in a great while, though, their deaths made a difference. In 1955, Emmett Till, a 14-year-old visiting Money, Miss., was yanked from his bed, shot in the head and dumped in a river after he supposedly whistled at a white woman. Till's killers were acquitted by an all-white jury. The uproar over the injustice helped feed a fledgling civil rights movement.
Today, Americans of all races hear echoes of those deaths. While much  remains unknown and new facts could emerge, the TrayvonMartin tragedy carries many of the classic earmarks of racial bias. Despite all of the nation's progress in burying its racist past, minorities are still commonly stopped by authorities for no other reason than the color of their skin. Try to find an African-American man who hasn't been stopped for "driving while black."
Martin, it appears, made the mistake of "walking while black."
The details have been widely reported: On Feb. 26, Martin had just come from a convenience store with some Skittles and an iced tea. He was walking in the Retreat at Twin Lakes, a gated community in the Orlando suburb of Sanford that had seen a recent rash of burglaries and thefts. He had on a hoodie, perhaps against the drizzly night. He was heading for the home of his father's girlfriend.
Neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman, driving his SUV, spotted the teen and called 911. "This guy looks like he's up to no good or he's on drugs or something," Zimmerman told a dispatcher. Armed with a gun, Zimmerman said he was following the guy. The dispatcher told him not to.
Zimmerman didn't listen. He left the safety of his vehicle. After a confrontation of some sort, he shot the unarmed Martin dead. Zimmerman has said it was self-defense. Sanford police didn't press charges.
It might well have ended there, but for a slowly building firestorm, fueled by black celebrities and columnists and social media. On Thursday, the Sanford police chief temporarily, and appropriately, stepped aside. Local prosecutors are now investigating Martin's death. So are the FBI and the Justice Department.
While authorities complete their investigations, a couple of questions are  worth pondering. Would Zimmerman have thought a white teen in a hoodie looked like he "was up to no good"?  And, most pointedly, if Zimmerman were black and had shot a white, unarmed 17-year-old, would police have let him go? 
