 SANFORD, Fla. (MCT) ? Members of the New Black Panther Party are offering a $10,000 reward for the "capture" of George Zimmerman, leader Mikhail Muhammad announced during a protest in Sanford Saturday.  
When asked whether he was inciting violence, Muhammad replied defiantly saying: "An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth." The bounty announcement came moments after members of the group called for the mobilization of 5,000 black men to capture George Zimmerman, the neighborhood watch volunteer who shot TrayvonMartin last month. Muhammad said members of his group would search for Zimmerman themselves in Maitland and Jacksonville ? where the 28-year-old worked before the shooting, employees there said.  Muhammad said the group's national chairman, Dr. Malik Zulu Shabaz of Washington, D.C., is receiving donations from black entertainers and athletes. They hope to collect $1 million by next week, Muhammad said. The party said they would not release the names of donors nor would they provide documentation to support the existence of donations. The New Black Panthers announced the reward at a protest in Sanford on Saturday, the activist group's third protest in the past two weeks over the fatal shooting of the Miami Gardens teen. The group called for Zimmerman's arrest and threatened to find and detain him if police were not willing to do so. But group members didn't call for the mobilization of thousands until Saturday. Muhammed led the group in chanting "Justice for Trayvon!" and "Black Power!" "If the government won't do the job, we'll do it," Muhammad said, leading his group of eight party members in chants like "freedom or death" and "justice for Trayvon" while making the iconic gesture of raising their fists into the air. The party members said they are tired of the inaction of government officials ? from Sanford city officials up to the governor, accusing them of lying and delaying justice. They accused newly appointed special prosecutor Angela Corley of being an enemy of the black community. "She has a track record of sending innocent young black men and women to prison," he said. Attorneys for the family of Trayvon and Zimmerman offered different perspectives Saturday on the federal investigation of the shooting. Daryl D. Parks, an attorney for the Martin family, told board members of the National Association of Black Journalists that family members met with federal and local officials for more than an hour Thursday. He said the family left the meeting "with a strong sense that justice was very committed" to investigating the case. Meanwhile, an attorney representing Zimmerman said Saturday that he believes the state's "stand-your-ground" law applies to the case, absolving him of any legal ramifications. Attorney Craig Sonner said his client has been unfairly portrayed as a racist. Contributing: Associated Press 
