CHARLESTON, W.Va. - Alisha Carter-Camp had a new job, a wedding to plan and a 26th birthday to celebrate with a family cookout and toasts to the birthday girl in a yard full of children. By the end of the night, she was among eight dead, including six children, in one of the city's deadliest house fires in decades.
The blaze tore through the two-story home while the family slept early Saturday, hours after the last guest left Carter-Camp's party, authorities said. The dead children ranged from 18 months to 8. A seventh child, a 7-year-old boy, was hospitalized on life support. 
The cause was under investigation, although arson wasn't suspected, Charleston Mayor Danny Jones said. The fire started about 2:30 a.m. Topeka time on the first floor. Jones said the home had just one working smoke detector; the city required several.
NATION
INVESTIGATORS SAY SOLDIER SPLIT KILLING SPREE: U.S. investigators believe the U.S. soldier accused of killing 17 Afghan civilians split the slaughter into two episodes, returning to his base after the first attack and later slipping away to kill again, two American officials said Saturday.
This scenario seems to support the U.S. government's assertion - contested by some Afghans - that the killings were done by one person, since they would have been perpetrated over a longer period of time than assumed when Army Staff Sgt. Robert Bales was detained March 11 outside his base in southern Afghanistan.
But it also raises new questions about how Bales, who was formally charged Friday with 17 counts of premeditated murder and other crimes, could have carried out the nighttime attacks without drawing attention from any Americans on the Kandahar province base.
ATTORNEYS IN TRAYVONMARTIN CASE MAKE ARGUMENTS: Attorneys for the family of TrayvonMartin and the Florida neighborhood watch captain who fatally shot the unarmed teen spoke Saturday on the federal investigation of the death.
Daryl D. Parks, an attorney for the Martin family, told board members of the National Association of Black Journalists that family members met with federal and local officials for more than an hour Thursday. He said the family left the meeting "with a strong sense that Justice was very committed" to investigating the case.
"I think that it was rather clear that the attorney general is quite aware of the situation," Parks said, referring to Eric Holder. "They have devoted a great deal of resources into looking into this matter.
"For us to have had all the people who were there with us and the magnitude of the conversation - this is a very high priority for this administration," he said in a wide-ranging interview.
WORLD
SYRIAN FORCES SHELL TOWNS, CLASH WITH REBELS: Syrian troops shelled rebellious areas in central and northern Syria on Saturday in the latest push to quash the uprising against President Bashar Assad, but faced fierce resistance from army defectors, activists said.
Much of the day's fighting focused on the northeastern town of Saraqeb, which activists said regime troops and tanks entered from the north amid heavy shelling.
The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said fighting reached the central market district where army defectors damaged a tank and three armored personnel carriers. Late Saturday, it said two rebel fighters and nine government troops had been killed in the clashes.
COMPILED BY CRAIG WHITE FROM WIRE REPORTS
