The comments were the president's first on the explosive case, in which a neighborhood watch captain has claimed self-defense after killing an unarmed 17-year-old. 
President Barack Obama spoke in highly personal terms Friday about how the shooting in Florida of a black 17-year-old named TrayvonMartin had affected him, saying that ''if I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon.''
The comments by Mr. Obama were his first on the explosive case, in which a neighborhood watch captain, George Zimmerman, has claimed self-defense after killing Mr. Martin. The case has generated outrage about the state's so-called Stand Your Ground law.
Mr. Obama was asked about his feelings regarding the case during the announcement of his nominee for president of the World Bank in the Rose Garden on Friday morning.
The president often appears perturbed when he is asked off-topic questions at ceremonial events, but on Friday he seemed eager to address the case, which has quickly developed into a heated issue around the country and made headlines overseas. He cautioned that his comments would be limited because the Justice Department was investigating. But he talked at length about his personal feelings about the case. 
''I think every parent in America should be able to understand why it is absolutely imperative that we investigate every aspect of this,'' Mr. Obama said. ''All of us have to do some soul searching to figure out how does something like this happen.''
The brief remarks were nonetheless a rare example of Mr. Obama speaking to the nation as an African-American parent and the father of two children.
''Obviously, this is a tragedy. I can only imagine what these parents are going through,'' Mr. Obama said, his face grim. ''When I think about this boy, I think about my own kids.''
The most powerful line came at the end of his brief remarks, as he said that his ''main message'' was directed at the parents of Mr. Martin, who have expressed their deep grief during interviews on television over the last several days.
''You know, if I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon,'' Mr. Obama said, pausing for a moment. ''I think they are right to expect that all of us as Americans are going to take this with the seriousness it deserves, and we are going to get to the bottom of exactly what happened.''
Mr. Obama sidestepped some of the most sensitive and politically charged specifics about the case - whether Mr. Zimmerman should be arrested; whether the Florida law goes too far in protecting people who shoot others; whether the police chief in Sanford, where the shooting took place, should be fired. (The chief, Bill Lee, stepped down temporarily on Thursday, saying he had become a distraction to the investigation.)
''I'm the head of the executive branch, and the attorney general reports to me,'' Mr. Obama said. ''So I've got to be careful about my statements to make sure that we're not impairing any investigation that's taking place right now.''
Thousands of supporters of Mr. Martin's parents expressed their outrage about the killing at a rally in Florida on Thursday night, adding to the growing political dimensions of the case.
The shooting took place Feb. 26, when Mr. Zimmerman, 28, pursued, confronted and fatally shot Mr. Martin, an unarmed high school student carrying only an iced tea and a bag of Skittles candy.
The Republican candidates for president on Friday also condemned the shooting, calling it a tragedy that demanded further investigation.
None of the Republican hopefuls had made mention of the case as it played out on television during the past week. But three of them ended their silence shortly after Mr. Obama weighed in.
Two of them, Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum, said they believed that the state's self-defense law did not apply in the case.
''As I understand Florida law, what he was doing had nothing to do with the law that people are talking about,'' Mr. Gingrich told reporters in Port Fourchon, Louisiana, where he was campaigning ahead of the state's Saturday primary election. ''The law involved somebody who's coming at you. As I understand it, he was trailing the young man. The young man wasn't trailing him. I suspect justice will be done.''
Mr. Santorum said that the law should not be used to excuse what Mr. Zimmerman is accused of doing.
''There's a difference between stand your ground and doing what he did,'' Mr. Santorum said Friday. ''It's a horrible case. I mean, it's chilling to hear what happened, and of course the fact that law enforcement didn't immediately go after and prosecute this case is another chilling example of horrible decisions made by people in this process.''
Mr. Santorum's comments came as he held a rally at a shooting range in Louisiana. Mr. Santorum fired a pistol at a target at the range as one woman in the crowd shouted, ''Pretend it's Obama!''
Mitt Romney issued a statement from his campaign saying: ''What happened to TrayvonMartin is a tragedy. There needs to be a thorough investigation that reassures the public that justice is carried out with impartiality and integrity.''
The case of Mr. Martin's death could potentially put the candidates in a delicate position with some elements of the Republican base. Self-defense laws like the one in Florida are strongly backed by the National Rifle Association.
The statements from the candidates suggested they wanted to express outrage about the shooting without directly criticizing those laws.
The last time Mr. Obama waded into a racially charged incident, it became a political problem for him.
Asked at a news conference about the arrest of a black Harvard professor in 2009, Mr. Obama offered his opinion, saying that the white officer from Cambridge, Massachusetts, had acted ''stupidly,'' which began a weeklong controversy about what he said.
''I think it's fair to say, No. 1, any of us would be pretty angry; No. 2, that the Cambridge police acted stupidly in arresting somebody when there was already proof that they were in their own home; and, No. 3 , what I think we know separate and apart from this incident is that there's a long history in this country of African-Americans and Latinos being stopped by law enforcement disproportionately,'' Mr. Obama said at the time. ''That's just a fact.''
Mr. Obama eventually invited the professor, Henry Louis Gates Jr., and the police officer, James Crowley, to the White House to discuss the situation.
But despite that incident, the president has been careful not to wade into racial politics. As the nation's first African-American president, he is sometimes criticized by black leaders who say he is not doing enough to deal with problems in that community.
Asked about the issue in a news conference in his first few months in office, Mr. Obama defended his approach as one that ''will lift all boats'' by working to ''level the playing field and ensure bottom-up economic growth.''
''I'm confident that that will help the African-American community live out the American dream at the same time that it's helping communities all across the country,'' Mr Obama said in April 2009.
