US PRESIDENT Barack Obama has heightened the national outcry over the fatal shooting of an unarmed black teenager, saying it is ``imperative'' a thorough investigation is carried out.
The killing of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin in Orlando, Florida, has sparked rallies across the US because the shooter, Neighbourhood Watch volunteer George Zimmerman, claims he acted in self-defence and, as a result has not been charged.
``I can only imagine what these parents are going through,'' Mr Obama said. ``When I think about this boy, I think about my own kids.'' 
His controversial comments will leave him open to claims he is fuelling simmering racial tensions.
Speaking at the White House, Mr Obama said: ``I think every parent in America should be able to understand why it is absolutely imperative to investigate every aspect of this, and that everybody pulls together - federal, state and local - to figure out exactly how this tragedy happened.''
Police did not arrest Mr Zimmerman after he shot hoodie-wearing Trayvon on February 26. He was returning from a trip to a convenience store when Mr Zimmerman started following him, telling police dispatchers he looked suspicious.
At some point, the two got into a row and Zimmerman pulled out his gun and shot the teen.
Trayvon's name and photo - in football jerseys, smiling alongside a baby, and staring into the camera in a gray hooded sweatshirt - have been held up by civil rights leaders and at rallies stretching from Miami to New York, demanding Zimmerman's arrest.
Mr Obama spoke just a day after the leading investigators in the case stepped down following mounting criticism on how they handled the case.
``I think all of us have to do some soul searching to figure out how does something like this happen,'' Mr Obama said. ``And that means we examine the laws, the context for what happened, as well as the specifics of the incident.
``But my main message is to the parents of TrayvonMartin. If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon and I think they are right to expect that all of us as Americans are going to take this with the seriousness it deserves and that we're going to get to the bottom of exactly what happened.''
The Justice Department and FBI have opened a civil rights investigation and a grand jury is considering whether to charge Zimmerman, who acknowledged shooting the teen but said it was self-defence.
Civil rights leader Al Sharpton has demanded Zimmerman's arrest.
``We cannot allow a precedent when a man can just kill one of us and then walk out with the murder weapon,'' he said. ``We don't want good enough. We want George Zimmerman in court with handcuffs behind his back.''
The rally came the same day that bitterly criticised police chief Bill Lee stepped down temporarily to help quell the rising tensions surrounding the case.
Students across Miami high schools, where Trayvon lived, held mass walk- outs this afternoon seeking justice for the murdered classmate.
Students at Krop, where Trayvon attended school, decided to stay on campus to honour a request from Trayvon's mother. Students plan to write letters to the family instead.
``There's no way I can believe that Trayvon would have done anything wrong because he's not a confrontational kid,'' said family friend Jerome Horton.
``That's just not that kid. There's more to this.''
Mr Horton said Trayvon loved sports, was extremely close to his father, liked to crack jokes with friends and had never been in trouble with the law.
