MEMBERS of the New Black Panther Party are offering a $10,000 reward for the ``capture'' of George Zimmerman, leader Mikhail Muhammad announced during a protest in Sanford yesterday. 
When asked whether he was inciting violence, Mr Muhammad replied defiantly: ``An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.''
The bounty announcement came moments after members of the group called for the mobilisation of 5000 black men to capture George Zimmerman, the Neighborhood Watch volunteer who shot TrayvonMartin last month.
The killing has unleashed a furious debate about race relations in America, echoing the fallout over the Rodney King police bashing and the OJ Simpson murder trial.
Mr Muhammad said members of his group would search for Zimmerman in Maitland and Jacksonville -- where the 28-year-old worked before the shooting. Mr Muhammad said the group's national chairman Dr Malik Zulu Shabaz, of Washington DC, was receiving donations from black entertainers and athletes.
They hoped to collect $1 million by next week.
The party said they would not release the names of donors nor would they provide documentation to support the existence of donations.
The New Black Panthers announced the reward at a protest in Sanford yesterday, the activist group's third protest in the past two weeks over the fatal shooting of the Miami Gardens teen.
The group called for Zimmerman's arrest and threatened to find and detain him if police were not willing to do so. But group members didn't call for the mobilisation of thousands until yesterday.
Mr Muhammed led the group in chanting ``Justice for Trayvon!'' and ``Black Power!''
``If the government won't do the job, we'll do it,'' Mr Muhammad said, leading his group of eight party members in chants like ``freedom or death'' and ``justice for Trayvon'' while raising their fists into the air. The party members said they were tired of the inaction of government officials from Sanford city officials up to the governor, accusing them of lying and delaying justice.
They accused newly appointed special prosecutor Angela Corley of being an enemy of the black community.
``She has a record of sending innocent young black men and women to prison,'' he said.
