IT IS A "march madness" not of the basketball kind. Across America,  outraged people are marching for TrayvonMartin, a 17-year-old  black male armed with a package of Skittles and an ice tea, who was  shot dead by George Zimmerman on Feb. 26 in a gated community in  the Florida city of Sanford.  
    Fate throws out Dickensian moments, surnames and locations that are  metaphors for something else. Back in the 1970s, there weren't a  lot of black people on television. No Huxtable family yet. There  were Fred and Lamont Sanford, father and son proprietors of a  junkyard. The show was funny, I guess, and it probably broke as  many stereotypes as it perpetuated. But the Sanfords were not  people you would find living in a gated community. So I find some  irony in that the place where Martin died at the hands of a  community watchman bears the same name as a 1970s show about black  people. Too little has changed in 40 years.   
  Are we supposed to believe Martin looked suspicious because he wore  a ubiquitous item of teen clothing, a hoodie? Was it the hoodie or  was it simply that Martin was a black teen walking in a nice  neighborhood? A grand jury will hear the case and have to decide.  
    A hoodie is not an excuse for the use of lethal force. But maybe in  Florida it is. Just as at one time in America some people found  justification in another kind of hoodie justice, one meted out by  men in white hoods. What happened in Sanford is in some ways more  dangerous to the American way of life than the Klan.  
    The Klan worked in shadows, thriving in pockets of bigotry. Few  Americans feel affinity for the Klan, but many Americans are  willing to take justice into their own hands. That is chilling.  Americans are arming themselves, cradling guns wrapped in the  Second Amendment.  
    The Constitution states the right of every citizen to bear arms. It  is silent about every citizen having the judgment to use them.  Considering that the first U.S. secretary of the Treasury was shot  dead by a sitting vice president of the United Sates, I do not know  why we continue to hold to the notion that our Founding Fathers had  a firm grasp over the dangers of everybody having a gun.  
    But as long as the National Rifle Association can all but  pistol-whip compliant legislators in statehouses and in Congress,  our nation will be at risk not just from criminals who want to do  harm, but from ill-equipped individuals packing heat.  
    The NRA tells the public guns don't kill people; people kill  people. Until people can spew out bullets with lethal force from  their mouths, it will be guns that kill people. And it will be  individuals who should never have had access to a gun doing most of  the killing.  
    From a "castle doctrine," a concept that one can defend oneself at  home, which is like a castle, states like Florida have created  "stand your ground" laws that can be summed up in three words: Make  my day. It is not about self-defense; it is about serving up  vigilante justice. It is a law designed to protect the person  wielding lethal force more than safeguard the victim of that force.  
    It has been reported that a 911 dispatcher told Zimmerman to stop  following Martin, to let police do what they are trained to do. The  advice was not heeded. It is hard to comprehend how a man inside a  vehicle, with a gun no less, could feel so threatened by an unarmed  teen on foot that he had to use lethal force.  
    Outside that vehicle, Sanford 2012 begins to feel like a  pre-Huxtable America, where guilt by hoodie is probable cause for  the firing of a gun.  
    I lived in Los Angeles during the Rodney King riots. I have seen  close-up what happens when racial tensions erupt. In a divided  America, I do not know where this "march madness" will take us. It  took three weeks for the national consciousness to become aware of  what happened in Sanford. Why so long? And why, after three months  -- not weeks -- is there no national interest in how a man who  suddenly fled a police station after turning himself in ended up  shot dead in a garage in Garfield, N.J.? Malik Williams is no less  dead than TrayvonMartin. And Williams' death is equally shrouded  in unanswered questions about the use of lethal force. This is a  national conversation to be had.  
    The Huxtables, again by a chance of fate, said goodbye to their  television fans at the very same time Los Angeles was burning over  the Rodney King verdicts. Several years later, the real Dr.  Huxtable, Bill Cosby, lost his son to roadside gun violence.  
    A gun is not an idea, not a principle, not a Creator-given right  like life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. It is a thing,  nothing more.  
    America cannot come to easy terms with racism. It is part of our  culture, our history. Today, things are better than they were --  unless they are not, which means that it all depends where you are  at any given moment in time.  
    So on Feb. 26, George Zimmerman stood his ground. And Trayvon  Martin died on it.  
    Alfred P. Doblin is the editorial page editor of The Record.  Contact him at doblin@northjersey.com Follow AlfredPDoblin on  Twitter.
