PRESIDENT BARACK Obama weighed in to the controversial killing of a black teenager in Florida in very personal terms yesterday, comparing the boy to a son he doesn't have and calling for American "soul searching" over how the incident occurred. 
Seventeen-year-old Trayvon Martin, dressed in a "hoodie", was shot dead a month ago in Florida by a 28-year-old white Hispanic neighbourhood watch volunteer who said he was acting in self- defence.
"If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon," Obama said in his first comments about the shooting, acknowledging the racial element in the case.
"Obviously, this is a tragedy. I can only imagine what these parents are going through. And when I think about this boy, I think about my own kids."
The case has galvanized the nation and prompted rallies protesting the failure of police to arrest the shooter, George Zimmerman, and more broadly, a pattern of racial discrimination that black leaders cite in Florida and elsewhere in the country.
Martin's parents thanked the president for his words.
Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law allows people to use deadly force in self-defence.
Similar laws are in effect in at least 24 states including Florida, according to the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. Calls are mounting to repeal them. Earlier last week, a Florida state senator said he was drafting new legislation to drastically change the law in Florida.
Bakari Sellers, a black Democrat and gun owner, said he wanted to prevent an incident like the shooting happening in his state. "I'm six-five and a black guy," he said. "I just know that it could have been me."
Obama said the laws should be studied. "I think all of us have to do some soul-searching . . . And that means that we examine the laws . . . as well as the specifics of the incident," he said.
Sanford's police chief and a Florida state prosecutor overseeing the case stepped aside on Thursday as criticism grew over police handling of the investigation. REUTERS
0.0
--------------------
CAPTION:
The father and mother of slain teen Trayvon Martin, Tracy Martin, left, and Sybrina Fulton, at a New York protest.
Picture: Reuters
