BET airs a half-hour news special "Shoot First: The Tragedy of Trayvon Martin" (at 7:30 p.m.), which looks at the slaying of the 17-year-old in Florida that made national headlines and goes through elements of the case. 
Now that Amy has accepted Ricky's proposal, she makes it clear that she wants to have a long engagement as "The Secret Life of the American Teenager" (ABC Family at 8) returns with new episodes, and Grace decides to room with Adrian during summer school.
"Alcatraz" (Fox at 8) wraps up Season 1 with a two-hour finale as Doc and Rebecca discover a man who may be able to answer a lot of questions about the creepy returning criminals. 
In the final week before the live shows begin, coaches on "The Voice" (NBC at 8) continue to make the singers battle it out to move on to the next round. 
Last week was sort of a practice round on "Dancing With the Stars" (ABC at 8). All the couples return to dance again, with the first results night tomorrow. And this time, they must speed things up to impress the judges with either a quickstep or jive.
The girls start training at a new gymnastics facility on the third-season premiere of "Make It or Break It" (ABC Family at 9) while Lauren runs into a very strange problem when she thinks her custom perfume is causing her to become sick.
Just in time for baseball season, "Inside Fenway Park: An Icon at 100" (MPT at 10) looks at the historic ballpark in Boston, which has the distinction of being both the oldest and smallest one in the country. The documentary also takes a look at the park as a home for rallies, campaign speeches and concerts. 
Ivy is unsure about her future after the workshop on "Smash" (NBC at 10), while Derek tries to get Karen to help him steal the musical from Julia and Tom. 
"Jersey Shore" may have ended for the season, but now there's "Brooklyn 11223" (Oxygen at 11), which sounds awfully similar: It features a group of twenty-something friends living it up in a close-knit Brooklyn community.
"The Tonight Show With Jay Leno" (NBC at 11:35) features actress Elizabeth Banks, "The Voice" host Carson Daly and country singer Jake Owen.
Journalist Rachel Maddow, actor Timothy Olyphant and musical guests Train are on "Late Show With David Letterman" (CBS at 11:35). 
- Emily Yahr
