There is, it seems, no rejected idea bad enough that it won't keep rearing its head over an over again with lawmakers. Maybe lobbying groups think if you just keep repeating the same words over and over again -- words like "personhood amendment" or "concealed carry reciprocity" -- folks will get confused into thinking such well-worn terms are already law. Perhaps then they will pass them, if only due to exhaustion.   
Once again, a bill that would force every state to honor any other states' laws regarding concealed carry permits for guns -- no matter how weak those laws are -- is being considered in Congress. Thus the weakest laws in the nation would trump the laws of every other state. Actually, make that two competing bills. Talk about repetition. Both bills are presented by Senate Republicans with the backing of the National Rifle Association. We urge Sens. Mark Udall and Michael Bennet to voice their opposition to these bills. Similar bills have failed in Congress in the past. Consider Colorado's laws: You can get a permit to carry a concealed weapon within the state. Within our borders, so can permit holders from the majority of American states, which have laws that meet or exceed our concealed carry rules. Some of them: You have to be 21 or older, you can't have been judged mentally incompetent, you can't have said you want to murder a bunch of people or be a chronic alcoholic. There are 18 states with lax permit rules, and we don't recognize those permits. If these bills pass, people who haven't had a background check and those who wouldn't get a permit in Colorado -- no way, no how -- can just bring in their hidden, loaded guns from out of state. Much more importantly, one could obtain a permit from any old state, with Colorado being forced to honor it. Utah saw 70 percent of its permits in 2010 issued to people who don't live in Utah, according to of Mayors Against Illegal Guns, more than 625 mayors representing more than 50 million Americans, who oppose the national reciprocity bills. Boulder Mayor Matthew Appelbaum, and Denver Mayor Michael B. Hancock are part of that group. The tragic case of the Florida neighborhood watchman with a violent criminal record, George Zimmerman, who shot and killed an unarmed black teenager, Trayvon Martin, should be a wakeup call. On Thursday, the Sanford, Fla., police chief Bill Lee said he was stepping down temporarily and the case is headed for a grand jury. But what the tragedy should illustrate is how carefully many gun laws are written just to protect gun owners -- the quick, but not the dead. Florida issues concealed carry permits to residents and non-residents online and through the mail. While Colorado recognizes Florida residents' concealed carry permits, it doesn't allow any non-resident holders of any state's permits to walk around with hidden, loaded guns here. If these bills pass, that won't matter at all. -- Erika Stutzman, for the Camera editorial board  
