Barack Obama has stepped into the growing controversy over the death of TrayvonMartin, telling a news conference that America has some "soul-searching" to do over the killing of the unarmed black teenager. 
The President, who previously described Trayvon's death as a "local issue", said yesterday he empathised with the parents of the boy, who was shot last month by a neighbourhood vigilante in suburban Florida.
"When I think about this boy, I think about my own kids," he told reporters at the White House yesterday. "If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon. They are right to expect that all of us as Americans are going to take this with the seriousness it deserves and that we're going to get to the bottom of exactly what happened."
Mr Obama's decision to speak out about Trayvon's killing, in such personal terms, represents a calculated gamble. Although the case has sparked international outrage, it also risks widening racial divides in an election year. Trayvon, who was 17 and had no criminal record, was shot on 26 March as he walked from a convenience store to the home of his father's girlfriend, in a gated community in the commuter town of Sanford, just outside Orlando. Police failed to arrest his killer, a local vigilante called George Zimmerman, apparently accepting at face value that he had acted in self-defence, and claiming that a "stand your ground" law enacted in Florida at the behest of the gun lobby would prevent his successful prosecution.
In the aftermath of the killing, it has emerged that they discounted the evidence of several witnesses, and misleadingly told the media that Mr Zimmerman, 28, was a "squeaky-clean" individual with no criminal record.
It subsequently emerged that he had a previous arrest for battery and had been accused of domestic violence. In the past year, he had called emergency services almost 50 times to complain about "suspicious persons" in his neighbourhood. The majority of them turned out to be black.
During his 911 call on the night of Trayvon's death, he appeared to use a racial slur to describe his eventual victim as a "f***ing coon". And he was never asked why he was forced to use a 9mm pistol to ward off a boy who weighed at least 100lbs less than him.
Sanford's chief of police has resigned, as his department faces widespread accusations of racial bias. Mr Zimmerman is now in hiding.
