A group linked to the militant Black Panthers organization has offered a bounty for the capture of George Zimmerman, the neighbourhood watch captain who killed an unarmed black teen-ager in Florida. 
Churches across the U.S. held services for TrayvonMartin, the unarmed 17-year-old whose death last month while on his way home from a convenience story led to outrage around the country after Zimmerman, 28, was able to plead self-defence to escape prosecution.
At a protest in Sanford, Fla., where the killing took place, Mikhail Muhammad, the leader of the New Black Panthers, announced a reward for his apprehension. Asked whether he was inciting violence, Muhammad said: "An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth."
The bounty announcement came moments after members of his group called for the mobilization of 5,000 black men to capture Zimmerman. Muhammad said members of his group would search for Zimmerman themselves in Maitland and Jacksonville - where the 28-year-old worked before the shooting. But he declined to say when they will begin their hunt.
Muhammed led the group in chanting "Justice for Trayvon!" and "Black Power!"
"If the government won't do the job, we'll do it," Muhammad said, leading his group of eight party members in chants like "freedom or death" and "justice for Trayvon" while making the iconic gesture of raising their fists into the air.
Pastor Moses Brown of Tampa said he was disappointed with the Panthers' approach.
"We believe in a message of justice, not hate," said Brown, who was in town to pray at the memorial. "We believe justice will come through the court system."
The Sanford rally was one of dozens held to protest at Tray-von's death, as demands for Zimmerman's arrest grew. He is in hiding and is said to be in fear for his life while a series of investigations are held into the decision of Sanford police not to press charges against him.
The New Black Panthers, inspired by the Black Panthers revolutionaries of the 1960s, has been named as a hate group by the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.
The Southern Poverty Law Center says the New Black Panther Party, a black-separatist group founded in 1989, is "virulently racist and anti-Semitic," and its leaders have encouraged violence against whites, Jews and law officers.
