The president of the Jacksonville NAACP said Friday that State Attorney Angela Corey's willingness to charge minors as adults, many of them black teenage males, gives him some concern about her appointment to head up the investigation into the shooting death of 17-year-old TrayvonMartin.
While Isaiah Rumlin said he does have concerns about Corey's selection because of her handling of cases like the Cristian Fernandez prosecution, he is looking for her to aggressively pursue justice in the Martin case. 
"There might have been some poor judgments that she's made in this city since becoming the state attorney, but we're hoping that she goes down there and does the right thing, and that is to indict the gentlemen who murdered TrayvonMartin," Rumlin said.
Martin was killed in late February in Sanford by George Zimmerman, 28, who said he was defending himself. Zimmerman has not been charged, and that has sparked national protests and calls to re-examine the state's "Stand Your Ground" law. Corey was named by Gov. Rick Scott Thursday to lead the Martin investigation.
A spokeswoman for Corey's office said she wouldn't be available for comment Friday.
Jacksonville Sheriff John Rutherford said Corey will help to ensure justice is done in the Martin case.
"If the Martin family knew Angela Corey, I think they would be comforted by the fact that she is handling that case," Rutherford said. "Knowing Angela, being a state prosecutor is not just a job for her, it's a calling. Angela, I'm confident, regardless of sentiment will take the facts of the case and apply the law and let the chips fall where they may. Justice, whatever that justice may be, is going to be served in the Martin case with Angela heading it up."
Sandy D'Alemberte, former president of the American Bar Association and former president of Florida State University, criticized Scott's selection of Corey for the Martin case.
"I cannot imagine a worse choice for a prosecutor to serve in the Sanford case," D'Alemberte said in an email. "There is nothing in Angela Corey's background that suits her for this task, and she cannot command the respect of people who care about justice."
D'Alemberte and Corey have sparred over Corey's handling of the Fernandez case. Corey indicted Fernandez at age 12, making him the youngest person to be charged with first-degree murder in Jacksonville history. He is charged with the beating death of his 2-year-old half-brother. Corey is proceeding with the charge against Fernandez despite international pleas for the boy not to be prosecuted as an adult.
Michael Hallett, chairman of the University of North Florida's Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice, said the Martin case provides an opportunity for Corey.
"It's an interesting contrast to Cristian Fernandez because it will provide the opportunity for Angela Corey to show concern for a black victim," Hallet said.
He also said the Martin case gives Corey a chance to take the "spotlight" off the Fernandez case.
Ultimately, Hallett said Corey is a good choice to take over the investigation into Martin's killing.
"I think that because we have so much gun crime in Duval County, Angela Corey is a good choice," he said. "Choosing Angela Corey goes a long way toward setting the law enforcement community at ease because she has such a strong relationship with law enforcement."
Former State Attorney Harry Shorstein wouldn't comment on Corey running the case because he said it'd be inappropriate. But he did speak to the challenges of being on a governor's assignment.
"The difficulty arises sometime from logistics, like travel time, and you are working with agencies that you're not used to dealing with," he said.
While he considered such assignments an honor, Shorstein also said the cases take time away from the state attorney's own case load.
"It takes you away from your primary responsibility, which is to run your own office," he said.
Topher Sanders: (904) 359-4169
MARTIN RALLY
A rally for TrayvonMartin, the teenager killed in Sanford last month by a neighborhood watch volunteer, is scheduled for 1 p.m. today at the Jacksonville Landing. The rally will walk from the Landing to the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office downtown.
