March 24--CHICAGO -- Wearing hoodies and carrying ice tea and skittles, like TrayvonMartin did when he was shot and killed, dozens of protestor rallied at Daley Plaza, mourning the death of the 17-year-old. 
"The only way I feel there's any hope of getting justice for TrayvonMartin is a campaign of public support" Occupy Chicago protestor Anton Ford said.
This protest, one of dozens across the country and one of a number in Chicago itself is calling attention to the Florida case which has garnered national attention.
Airickca Gordon-Taylor, a cousin of Emmitt Till said "As a family, we want justice for them.. We're there for them."
Family members of the late Chicagoan Emmitt Till, who's death in 1955 was one of the defining moments of the civil rights movement, spoke in support of Trayvon's family.
"We do understand your pain and if Emmitt's mother were alive today she would definitely be there, as his mom's side going through this every step of the way with her," Gordon-Taylor said Saturday.
"We all have a Trayvonmartin in our town."
The reverend Jesse Jackson at Rainbow Push headquarters also talked about the case, ahead of his trip to be with Trayvon's family.
"So it is today that the people killing and walking free has to end Mr. Zimmerman has to be in jail for a long time," Rev. Jackson said.
Cook County Commissioner and former State Representative John Fritchey, who attended the rally, said the shooting in Florida of an unarmed teenager will have an impact on the debate over gun control in Illinois.
"We are going to have to deal with this issue as being one of the only states in the country that doesn't have concealed carry," Fritchey said, "This story, as stories like them, as people like that are trying to still pass it downstate."
It is a debate that continues, as Chicago and the country look to TrayvonMartin's death and wonder its impact on their lives in the future.
___ (c)2012 WGN-TV (Chicago) Visit WGN-TV (Chicago) at www.wgntv.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
