ST. LOUIS - About 400 people shaken by the fatal shooting in Florida of TrayvonMartin huddled under umbrellas and a pavilion at Tower Grove Park Friday evening as rain poured down on the raucous vigil service while participants repeatedly yelled for peace and justice.
One by one, poets, politicians, pastors and activists stepped up to a microphone to speak out about the death. 
"Unfortunately, Trayvon's story is a story with similarities of other lives violently lost," said Rachel Lee, 27, who organized the event. "The man who admittedly murdered Trayvon - George Zimmerman - is still out there, and he needs to be arrested. That is what this is all about."
Martin, 17, was unarmed when he was shot and killed on Feb. 26 in his father's gated community in Sanford, Fla. Zimmerman, 28, a neighborhood watch volunteer, said he shot Martin in self-defense and has not been charged. But the incident has spurred outrage across the country, particularly among frican-Americans.
Martin was black, and Zimmerman is Hispanic.
In St. Louis on Friday, there was a rally downtown and later at Tower Grove Park, where the crowd wasn't fazed much by the mud and rain. It seemed to build steam with each speaker.
Mayor Francis Slay said he has long encouraged residents to be vigilant in their neighborhoods, but that it seems to be the "opposite of what occurred in Florida."
"Vigilant neighbors are not and should not be vigilantes," he said. "Vigilantes are worse than the problems that they purport to solve."
Monica Lavington, 45, of Ferguson, stood by a long puddle, holding a 5-month-old grandbaby in her arms and imagining her 25-year-old son in Martin's place.
"Something like this could have happened to him," she said. "So I decided to come out no matter what - rain, sleet or snow."
Ryan Johnson, 17, the same age as Martin, said he wanted to see how people reacted to the killing.
"It seems like people are talking about it, but I wanted to see what people are going to do about it," said Johnson, a senior at Mel Carnahan High School of the Future.
His mother, Susan Henry of University City, explained that she has tried to teach her son, who is black and wears dreadlocks, to think before he reacts to authorities who may confront him.
"When you are asked a question, answer it and be careful with your words," said Henry, who has two teenage boys. "That's the safest thing to do. Don't blurt out. Think, then speak."
Others had similar stories and fears. Some carried signs and banners, such as one that read: "Please, sir, don't kill our children."
As outrage from the shooting moved across the country, President Barack Obama said that if he had a son, "he'd look like Trayvon." But the Rev. Starsky Wilson told the crowd at Tower Grove that that wasn't enough from an African-American president.
"Act like this is your daughter, like your son, and do justice," he said to cheers.
St. Louis County Executive Charlie A. Dooley said he couldn't think of any black males who haven't been pulled over by police.
"I am 64 and I am stopped every now and again," he said, rallying the crowd. "Now friends, we have come together for a common cause. Justice in America today."
But St. Louis rapper Tef Poe blasted public officials from the microphone for trying to capitalize on the momentum behind the Martin killing.
"This ain't no photo op!" he yelled.
An earlier rally started with a march from City Hall to Soldiers Memorial, where Aldermanic President Lewis Reed told the group that the country needs a "wake-up call." He also said St. Louis must begin to respond to shootings here with the same intensity as it has responded to Martin's death.
Many wore hoodies and carried Skittles or cans of iced tea, the items Martin was carrying when he was killed, to highlight their view that Martin was a normal teen who wasn't armed with anything that would make him a threat to Zimmerman.
Edward Williams, 40, of St. Louis, took a day off from his job at a grocery to be part of the event. He said he was surprised by how many people had turned out for the march.
"Apathy runs so deep in St. Louis," he said. "We don't stand up, but this has touched a deep nerve. We need everybody to stand by this family."
