George Zimmerman, a 28-year-old "captain" of his neighborhood watch, shot and killed an unarmed 17-year-old black teenager.
Trayvon Martin, watching a basketball game in a home in a gated community, decided to walk to a store to buy iced tea and candy. 
He never returned.
Although the shooting happened almost a month ago, the police have neither arrested nor charged the shooter. But pressure to do so grows more intense by the day.
One petition calling for Zimmerman's arrest has drawn a million signatures. A Million Hoodie March - Martin was wearing one when shot - just took place in New York, where protesters demanded Zimmerman's arrest, and some want him charged for a racially-motivated murder.
The Justice Department announced an investigation, and a Florida grand jury will also examine the case.
Many already call Zimmerman a murderer, protected by an insular, close-minded, small-town law enforcement community. But, understandable emotion aside, whether a prosecutor can persuade a jury beyond a reasonable doubt that Zimmerman is a murderer is not an easy proposition.
Zimmerman apparently volunteered for the job to watch the neighborhood and had called 911 multiple times in the previous months to complain about suspicious activity. In Zimmerman's 911 call that night, he described Martin as black - in response to the dispatcher's question.
Zimmerman also told 911 that "these a--holes always get away." He mutters, under his breath, something that might be a racial slur.
More problematic for Zimmerman is that he was in his car following Martin while talking to 911 - and the dispatcher told him not to leave his car to pursue, and to let the police handle it. But he got out of his car.
There was a scuffle. Martin's girlfriend, who was on the phone with him as Zimmerman was following the teen, says that Martin was attacked without provocation.
Florida is a "shall issue" state that allows citizens to apply for a permit to carry a concealed weapon. Zimmerman had a permit.
Also, Florida is one of almost two dozen other states with a "Stand Your Ground" law. Florida's law, passed in 2005, says a person who is attacked in a place "where he or she has a right to be" can use deadly force "if he or she reasonably believes it is necessary to do so to prevent death or great bodily harm to himself or herself."
Is it illegal to follow someone in public? Is it illegal to get out of a car and pursue when advised not to? Did Zimmerman reasonably believe his life in danger when he shot?
Absent more, do a white shooter and black victim automatically mean hate crime?
There is a lot we do not know. This should be about justice - and not about "my race right or wrong."
