Last month's fatal shooting of an unarmed black teenager by a neighborhood watch volunteer outside Orlando was a tragedy, worshippers at local black churches said Sunday morning.
They also said it's a travesty that the shooter, George Zimmerman, was neither arrested nor charged in the killing of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin.
"For them not to arrest him, that's my problem," West Palm Beach resident Alberta Hollis said before services at Redemptive Life Fellowship on North Australian Avenue.
"I've been listening to the case all week. They're not arresting him because they said they weren't supposed to. I'm really grieved by this."
"It's outrageous," added a woman who also worships at Redemptive Life and who asked not to be identified. "I'm just shocked that this man should still be at large.
"There's no explanation. Not even racism will explain it."
The case has sparked a nationwide furor since it unfolded Feb. 26.
According to police, Martin, wearing a hooded sweatshirt, was returning to his father's home in a gated community in Sanford, 20 miles northeast of Orlando, after buying Skittles candy and a canned iced tea from a convenience store.
Zimmerman, who was patrolling the neighborhood, saw Martin and called 911 because he thought the teenager looked suspicious.
He followed Martin despite being advised against it by a dispatcher. An encounter ensued, and Martin was discovered later shot to death.
Zimmerman, who claimed self-defense in the shooting, has not been charged with a crime.
That fact saddens the Rev. Kevin Jones, a youth minister with Tabernacle Missionary Baptist Church in West Palm Beach.
"It's just disappointing to hear that they're not really going through with the due process," Jones said. "To not arrest this man is just distasteful, just dishonorable. It really hurts my heart. We're about encouraging and raising up our young men to be godly men. To see this happen is definitely disheartening."
An estimated 200 people took part in a march Sunday afternoon that began at Currie Park in West Palm Beach and continued to the county courthouse.
Tabernacle Missionary will hold a justice rally at 6:30 tonight at the church at 801 Eighth St. Representatives of 26 congregations are expected to attend. The public is invited.
~ jodie_wagner@pbpost.com
