March 25--Thirty-nine yeas, zero nays.
Hard to believe that such a flawed law got unanimous support, but it did.
When the so-called "Stand Your Ground" bill went to a vote in the Florida Senate seven years ago today, the final tally was 39-0. 
A few weeks later, there was token Democratic opposition in the House as the bill passed 92-to-20. In late April 2005, Gov. Jeb Bush signed it. In October 2005, Stand Your Ground became state law.
Now that law is at the heart of a national debate, and international outrage, after the shooting death of unarmed Miami teen TrayvonMartin by neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman in Sanford last month. Zimmerman told police he was injured in a fight and acted in self-defense. With conflicting witnesses and unclear evidence, he has not been arrested. That's what the law spells out.
"I have a clear conscience," said former state Sen. Steve Geller, a Broward Democrat. "I tried to take the bad parts out, but my amendment was defeated. I sounded warnings about it."
So why did he and the entire South Florida Senate delegation (except for absent Fort Lauderdale Democrat Mandy Dawson) end up voting yes? Geller said it was going to pass anyway in the face of powerful National Rifle Association support, and he was afraid a no vote would be used against him in later campaigns, since the bill included reasonable parts protecting police officers.
"It would have been like voting against apple pie or motherhood," Geller told me last week.
How's that for a profile in political courage?
The law dramatically expanded self-defense parameters in Florida, allowing citizens to meet "force with force" in places they are legally entitled to be. If someone "reasonably believes" they are in "imminent danger" of death or serious injury, they can use deadly force and be immune from criminal prosecution or civil liability.
Under the law, police are barred from making an arrest unless there is "probable cause" a killing is unjustified.
"Self-defense is a legal argument that you make in a courtroom to a judge and jury, not on the side of the road to police," Benjamin Crump, an attorney for Martin's family, said last week.
But under Stand Your Ground, some killers never have to face a judge, jury, or prosecutors.
A special state prosecutor and a grand jury will soon sort out potential charges against Zimmerman. Federal officials are investigating if the shooting was racially motivated.
Fort Lauderdale attorney Gary Farmer said Stand Your Ground's encroachment on judicial territory might make the law unconstitutional. "We've been waiting for a good test case," said Farmer. "TrayvonMartin might be it."
Some politicians, like Jeb Bush, are standing their ground over Stand Your Ground, saying the law shouldn't apply in the Martin case. Some say there's nothing wrong with the law.
But seven years after the Senate's 39-0 vote, with anger and protests over Martin's death intensifying, the feeling is no longer unanimous.
mmayo@tribune.com, or 954-356-4508
___ (c)2012 the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) Visit the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) at www.sun-sentinel.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
