I have no more idea what happened in Florida between TrayvonMartin and George Zimmerman than I do the price of cheese on Jupiter.
I only know 17-year-old Trayvon is dead and the nation is up in arms about it. 
About a month late.
But thanks to his determined family, the death of TrayvonMartin now has our undivided attention.
Too bad that never happened for L.A.'s murdered children, 14-year-old Cheryl Green, 23-day-old Baby Luis and our own 17-year-old Jamiel Shaw II.
I'm with the millions who can't understand how local authorities swallowed Zimmerman's story. This isn't a courageous stand. Insisting on Zimmerman's presumption of innocence - now that takes a set of brass ones!
Still, is it possible Zimmerman sincerely feared for his life when he shot Trayvon dead? I guess. I wasn't there.
But like you, I've heard the 911 tapes.
I heard Zimmerman phone in the movements of his quarry to a police dispatcher, nearly hyperventilating from the adrenaline rush.
I heard the dispatcher tell Zimmerman to stop following Trayvon, "We don't need you to do that... Stay in your car."
It's hard to conceive how an experienced neighborhood watch captain - packing heat no less - with the protection of his vehicle available while on the phone with the police somehow managed to stumble into a "life-threaten- ing" situation with anyone.
Zimmerman's actions seem ripped from the pages of "Heart of Darkness" or even this weekend's blockbuster, "The Hunger Games," both stories featuring human prey.
The killing of TrayvonMartin - and it requires all my willpower to not call it murder - rips at the scab of America's deepest psychic wound, race.
That George Zimmerman is himself multi-ethnic - part white, part Hispanic - is irrelevant. The blunt, non-PC truth is young, black lives come cheap.
Even after decades of civil rights legislation, affirmative action, hate crimes laws, our first African-American president and the Civil War itself, we still accept a shockingly high mortality rate among young blacks.
Last week, as the fury over Trayvon's death finally forced his story on to the big TV networks and thus into our consciousness, the city of Chicago saw 10 killed, including a 6-year-old girl, and a staggering 39 wounded!
Where's the outrage over that?
But 10 killed, 39 wounded are just statistics. TrayvonMartin is a cause.
His death provides fresh meat for the loathsome political opportunists left and right who are exploiting this tragedy to score cheap points at the polls in November and beyond.
George Zimmerman will be charged with something for killing TrayvonMartin because the nation demands it. And needs it. We need to know what happened.
Especially if, somehow, it turns out Zimmerman really is innocent.
