An armed George Zimmerman apparently took very little time to determine that an unarmed 17-year-old boy carrying iced tea and Skittles represented a threat serious enough for him to confront and fatally shoot TrayvonMartin. Gov. Scott is right that the state should take much longer to assess the law that may prevent authorities from charging Mr. Zimmerman with a crime. 
In 2005, the Legislature considered a major, dangerous expansion of Florida's "castle doctrine." Like most states, Florida allowed homeowners to defend themselves in their "dwellings," using deadly force if necessary, but required that deadly force be used as a last resort, and used only after doing everything -- including retreating -- to avoid a deadly confrontation.
Senate Bill 436 made two major changes. It expanded the definition of "dwelling" to include basically any place, including cars. It also eliminated the need to retreat. Law enforcement opposed the legislation, fearing that it could create a vigilante culture. "I dislike the law because it encourages people to stand their ground ... when they could just as easily walk away," said Barry Krischer, who at the time was Palm Beach County's state attorney. "To me, that's not a civilized society." The National Rifle Association said lawful gun owners needed the protection, even though the House and Senate analyses of the bill made no reference to a rise in wrongful self-defense prosecutions.
As usual, the NRA prevailed, exploiting its customary leverage with Republicans and Democrats' new worries that support for gun control had hurt their party in the 2004 elections. Thirteen of the 36 Democrats in the House voted for the bill. So did all 14 Democrats in the Senate. One of them, Dave Aronberg, said, "We're trying to show that, if you are a gun owner, you are a Democrat, too." Mr. Aronberg is running for Mr. Krischer's old job, and for the power to decide "castle doctrine" cases.
Though supporters could cite no numbers to support their case seven years ago, the number of self-defense claims statewide since then reportedly has spiked roughly 250 percent. State Sen. Chris Smith, D-Fort Lauderdale, said Wednesday he is preparing legislation to repeal the 2005 law, but any bill at this point also is premature.
Police in Sanford, near Orlando, have not charged Mr. Zimmerman in the killing of TrayvonMartin and say their investigation is over. Given the circumstances, multiple investigations must follow. If Mr. Zimmerman provoked a needless confrontation and killed a man who represented no threat, then can claim self-defense and get away with it, the critics were right about what then-Gov. Jeb Bush called an "anti-crime" law seven years ago. Whatever happens to Mr. Zimmerman, SB 436 and those who voted for it were his accomplices.
-- Randy Schultz,for The Palm Beach Post Editorial Board
