March 25--Among the penances we pay for our long struggle to overcome bigotry is a political correctness in everything we say. In our rush to cover our past sins, we are wound so tightly that even to hint that we aren't one large happy family is akin to suggesting we might not have come as far as our ethnically balanced TV commercials indicate. 
The death of a black teen-ager almost a month ago in Sanford for no apparent reason other than he looked "suspicious" -- walking down a sidewalk at night; going to a house in a gated community -- has raised the national conscience.
The real issue, the one that bubbles near the surface, is not so much the event itself in which a neighborhood watchman reportedly disregarded a police dispatcher's instructions, and allegedly followed and shot 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. It goes deeper.
This is a violent country. People get killed every day. The number of homicides involving guns hovers around 10,000 annually.
But this isn't about gun control, other than neighborhood watch patrols are supposed to be unarmed and report suspicious people to police, not go after them.
At many levels, what happened in the minutes, days and weeks following the death of Martin paints an ugly picture of imbalance, whether intentional or not.
If you have read the sketchy accounts of how Sanford police and an entire system treated the victim and his alleged killer, it is easy to arrive at uncomfortable conclusions.
There are plenty of over-eager, possibly racist thugs who could do what those appalled by the teen's death have accused the alleged gunman of doing.
More disturbing is if we examine our own reactions to what now is happening. I usually get ticked when I see the Jesse Jacksons and Al Sharptons stepping in front of cameras to address a controversy with racial overtones.
But isn't it true that if this had been a white teenager walking through a black neighborhood at night, the repercussions -- from the way the event was investigated, to media coverage, to the way you and I reacted -- would be different?
I've heard the voices this week -- your neighbors here in Tampa. Some try to defend the killing, reaching for justification in a slaying that shouldn't have happened. "He shouldn't have been there..." "He should have kept on walking..." "Why was he wearing a hoodie?..."
We're a nation that rightfully can shine a light on how far we have come in guaranteeing equal opportunities for everyone.
It is only when tragedies such as this one occur that we are reminded we still are growing and reaching for an inner conviction that will allow us to practice what we preach.
___ (c)2012 the Tampa Tribune (Tampa, Fla.) Visit the Tampa Tribune (Tampa, Fla.) at www.tampatrib.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
