ATLANTA
Atlantans rally for slain Florida teen
More than 100 protesters gathered Thursday at an Atlanta church for a rally and worship service before heading south to protest the shooting death of Florida teen Trayvon Martin. After the early morning service, the protesters boarded buses that took the group from First Iconium Baptist Church to Sanford, Fla., just north of Orlando, to take part in a bigger rally led by the Rev. Al Sharpton.
The 17-year-old Martin, who was walking to his father's house after at trip to a convenience store, was shot by volunteer neighborhood watchman George Zimmerman. Zimmerman said he killed Martin, who was unarmed, in self-defense. 
Martin's death has sparked a nationwide outcry, with protestors demanding Zimmerman be arrested. It also has prompted debates on issues of race and racial profiling.
Teacher says he was bullied into cheating
Parks Middle School teacher Damien Northern, one of the two educators to resign last week amid the cheating scandal, described the culture of Atlanta Public Schools as "morally bankrupt." In a statement written to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Northern said he is a victim of the school system and was forced into a compromising position. He said he feared the consequences of reporting it.
Northern and fellow teacher Cheryl Hunt quit their jobs rather than face a panel that was to have decided their fate.
COBB
Commission rejects Vinings zoning change
Cobb County commissioners gave a unanimous "no" Tuesday to a zoning change request in the Vinings area. The change would have allowed the construction of a midrise apartment complex, proposed by Walton Communities. The rejection aligned with nearby residents' views that the 262-unit, 23.5-acre complex would be out of place in an area of single family homes. Denial of the zoning change also was recommended by the Cobb Planning Commission.
DEKALB
County promises animal shelter changes
Facing pressure from residents and a citizen's task force, DeKalb officials said Tuesday they are committed to changing how the county animal shelter is operated.
Burrell Ellis, the county's chief executive, said he is eyeing locations to build a new shelter and trying figure out how to come up with the estimated $4 million to $8 million it would cost. More immediate plans include installing air conditioning at the current shelter.
Although the county has made improvements in the decade since it acknowleged issues with the shelter, a task force formed last year said the shelter was still a "chamber of horrors," citing bug infestations and mold problems.
GWINNETT
Man charged in Norcross-area rapes
DNA analysis has linked a man to the rapes of two Gwinnett women, police say. The suspect, 27-year-old Jerson Antonio Gomez, already in prison, is charged with similar crimes in Bartow County. Gwinnett police said Wednesday he now faces additional charges in connection with the Norcross-area attacks.
In December 2008, a 28-year-old woman reported walking along Singleton Road when a man attempted to rob her at knifepoint before raping her. A month later, a 51-year-old woman reported being raped by a man with a pistol after she returned home to find him in her bedroom.
NORTHSIDE
Judge tosses lawsuit for dissolution of cities
A judge has thrown out a lawsuit that sought to dissolve five cities in DeKalb and Fulton counties. The suit, filed by the Legislative Black Caucus, said the state didn't follow the proper legislative process when incorporating Dunwoody, Sandy Springs, Johns Creek, Milton and Chattahoochee Hills. By forming the "super-majority white" cities, the state weakened the minority vote in those areas and the 14th and 15th Amendments, as well as the Voting Rights Act, the caucus claimed in its lawsuit.
In dismissing the suit, U.S. District Judge Timothy C. Batten Sr. said the caucus' proposal to dissolve the new cities was illogical. An attorney for the caucus said he was shocked by the judge's decision but that the caucus planned to appeal.
SOUTHSIDE
Odor of pot leads to fraud charges
College Park police said the smell of marijuana at a hotel led them to something even more shady. Following up on a hotel guest's complaints of the odor, officers said they uncovered not only pot, but an apparent identity-theft ring. They said they found three men holed up in the room with stolen debit and credit cards, a patient list from a medical facility and tax returns. Authorities said Antonio Mitchell, Jerrold Malone and Calvin Neal are charged with multiple counts of financial-transaction fraud. Mitchell also faces one count of marijuana possession and a probation violation charge, Clayton County Jail records show.
STATE
Report lists state's lagging schools
According to a report released Tuesday by the Georgia Department of Education, 156 schools in the state need extra attention to address disparities in achievement and graduation rates. The schools, designated "focus" schools, include 15 in Clayton County; 10 each in DeKalb and Fulton counties; seven apiece for APS and Gwinnett; five in Cobb; and two for Marietta city schools.
The focus designation is one of three new performance designations public schools in Georgia and other states that received waivers under No Child Left Behind. "Focus," "priority" and "reward" replace the old "needs improvement" and "adequate yearly progress" designations.
Senate passes tax reform bill
House Bill 386, a sweeping, 50-page plan to change nearly every section of tax law, will soon be law after getting its final approval from the Senate on Thursday. The bill, which passed with a vote of 54-0, was introduced Monday and passed the House on Tuesday. It includes tax cuts for airlines, manufacturers and married couples. It also eliminates the car tax Georgia motorists pay on their birthdays.
