College students are among those attempting to bring an arrest in the fatal shooting of an unarmed teen in Sanford.
On Wednesday, many were posting photos of themselves in hooded sweatshirts, as TrayvonMartin was wearing when he was shot and killed during a confrontation with a neighborhood watch captain on Feb. 26. And tonight, they are expected to join hundreds at a rally featuring the Rev. Al Sharpton at a Sanford church. 
At least 15 students from Bethune-Cookman University in Daytona Beach have signed up for the rally that starts at 7 p.m. outside First Shiloh Missionary Baptist Church, 700 S. Elm Ave., Sanford.
And many more B-CU students are expected to attend a March 31 NAACP protest in Sanford, said Ebony Minter, the school's student- government president.
Many of the justice rallies throughout history have been led by college students. This is not anything new," Minter said.
The students getting involved also have a role model with a statue in her honor on the Daytona Beach campus bearing her name.
Our founder, Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune, was a champion of civil rights . . . (for) standing up for those who were disenfranchised and not being treated in a manner that is right.
I could be TrayvonMartin tomorrow in Daytona Beach," she said.
Even students who aren't planning on attending the rallies are posting messages of support on Facebook, Twitter and elsewhere.
Christine Jacobson, a senior at Stetson University in DeLand, said students are signing petitions calling for changes to Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law, which legal experts say has made difficult the arrest of the shooter, George Zimmerman.
I definitely would stand in solidarity with those who are calling for the arrest of George Zimmerman," Jacobson said.
The Rev. L. Ronald Durham, pastor of Greater Friendship Missionary Baptist Church in Daytona Beach, is part of the team organizing tonight's rally.
He said the event is expecting numbers too great to fit inside the Sanford church so arrangements are being made to have the gathering outdoors.
We are trying to minimize any potential problems," he said. "We don't want people who are angry over the TrayvonMartin shooting to become even angrier because they can't see what is going on."
