The police chief of a Florida town where an unarmed black teenager was shot dead by a neighbourhood watch captain stepped aside Thursday following withering criticism and national outrage that police have declined to arrest the shooter. 
Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee's resignation, which he called "temporary," failed to appease civil rights and community leaders calling for the arrest of watch captain George Zimmerman, 28, who shot 17-year-old Trayvon Martin and has claimed self-defence.
Police have said Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law, which allows people to use deadly force when they perceive danger in any public place, prevented them from arresting Zimmerman, a white Hispanic who has disappeared from public view.
Zimmerman's father said his son was unfairly vilified, calling him a friend of minorities whose true nature was being distorted by national calls for his arrest and allegations he pursued Martin just because he was black.
Coupled with at least two prior cases that stoked black anger toward the police, the response to the Martin episode had grown so intense that Lee said he had no option but to step aside because "my involvement in the matter is overshadowing the process."
In 2011, a previous Sanford police chief was forced out of the job after a white police officer's son was captured on video sucker-punching a black homeless man outside a bar.
Sanford police did not immediately arrest the officer's son, Justin Collison.
But after video of the attack surfaced on local TV and the Internet and provoked an outcry from Sanford civil rights leaders, Collison was charged weeks later with aggravated battery and disorderly conduct. He eventually pleaded guilty to a misdemeanour charge.
The incident came five years after two white private security guards with ties to the police department shot and killed a black teenager.
The two guards, one the son of a Sanford police officer and the other a department volunteer, said they opened fire in self-defence, claiming the teenager attempted to run them over. Evidence showed the teenager died from a gunshot in the back. The cases were eventually dismissed because of a lack of evidence.
The Martin case generated mostly local interest in the days following the Feb. 26 shooting but has steadily drawn the national spotlight, which has only grown in recent days since the state of Florida and U.S. Justice Department announced their own investigations and the city commission voted 3-2 in favour of a "no confidence" motion against Lee on Wednesday night.
Florida Governor Rick Scott and Attorney General Pam Bondi on Thursday replaced the head of the state investigation, appointing Angela B. Corey as the "assigned" state attorney.
Scott also announced the formation of a task force to follow up the findings of Corey's investigation.
A crowd of at least 5,000 gathered Thursday in a Sanford park to protest the Martin case and what black leaders have called a pattern of racial discrimination in Sanford and elsewhere in a country that has elected a black president.
"There are serious problems that go beyond this case," said Benjamin Jealous, president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, a leading civil rights organization.
