US president speaks on killing that 'made him think of his children'  
US President Barack Obama weighed into the controversial killing of a black teenager in Florida in very personal terms on Friday,comparing the boy to a son he doesn't have and calling forAmerican "soul searching" over how the incident occurred. 
TrayvonMartin, 17, was shot dead a month ago in Sanford, Florida, by a 28-year-old white Hispanic neighbourhood watch volunteer who said he was acting in self-defence.  
"If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon," Mr Obama said in his first comments about the shooting, acknowledging the racial element in the case. 
"Obviously, this is a tragedy," Mr Obama told reporters. "I can only imagine what these parents are going through. And when I think about this boy, I think about my own kids." 
The case has galvanised the nation and prompted ralliesprotesting the failure of police to arrest the shooter, GeorgeZimmerman, and more broadly, a pattern of racial discrimination that black leaders cite in Sanford and elsewhere in the country. 
Mr Martin's parents thanked the president for his words. "The president's personal comments touched us deeply and made us wonder, if his son looked like Trayvon and wore a hoodie, would he be suspicious too'" they said. 
Florida's 'Stand Your Ground' law allows people to use deadly force in self-defence. 
Similar laws are in effect in at least 24 states, , according to the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. Calls are mounting to repeal them. 
Last week, a Florida state senator said he was drafting new legislation to drastically change the law in Florida. 
A South Carolina state representative said on Friday he had introduced a bill to repeal his state's law. 
Bakari Sellers, a black Democrat and gun owner, said he wanted to prevent an incident like the TrayvonMartin shooting happening in his state. 
"I'm 6ft 5in and a black guy," he said. "I just know that it could have been me." 
Mr Obama said the 'Stand Your Ground' laws should be studied. 
"I think all of us have to do some soul-searching to figureout how does something like this happen. And that means that we examine the laws and the context for what happened, as well as the specifics of the incident," he said. 
"Every parent in America should be able to understand why it is absolutely imperative that we investigate every aspect of this, and that everybody pulls together -- federal, state andlocal -- to figure out exactly how this tragedy happened." 
Mr Obama, the son of a white mother from Kansas and black father from Kenya, does not comment frequently on race, a sensitive topic inthe United States, whichstill grapples with a legacy of slavery, segregation and discrimination. 
Early in his White House tenure, Mr Obama inflamed another racially tinged incident by declaring police had "acted stupidly" when arresting a well-known black documentary filmmaker, Henry Louis Gates, after an altercation at his home. 
Mr Obama later invited Mr Gates and the white police officer, Sergeant James Crowley, to the White House, where the men shared a drink in what became known as the "beer summit". 
In Sanford, Norton Bonaparte Jr, the city's manager,acknowledged that tensions between the black community and police "go back many, many years". 
"The trust that existed is gone, so we have to start from ground zero," he said. 
Sanford's police chief and a Florida state prosecutor overseeing the case stepped aside last week as criticism grew over police handling of the investigation. 
Mr Zimmerman has not commented publicly about the shooting and his whereabouts are unknown. 
Florida court records showed Mr Zimmerman was involved in at least two previous legal incidents, including a 2005 domestic violence case with his former fiancee. 
