ONTARIO - An Ontario church joined worshippers, preachers and other churches to echo calls for justice in the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager last month in Florida.
Wearing hooded sweatshirts similar to the one that TrayvonMartin wore on the night he was killed, the tribute locally on March 25th came a day before the one-month anniversary of Martin's death.
Martin, 17, was shot while wearing a hooded sweatshirt as he walked home on a rainy night in a gated community. 
The Neighborhood Watch volunteer who allegedly shot him, 28-year-old George Zimmerman, is the son of a white father and Hispanic mother. The demands to charge him in Martin's slaying have grown across the country.
Zimmerman had called police to report the hooded figure as suspicious - Martin was carrying a bag of Skittles, a can of iced tea and talking to his girlfriend on his cell phone. He was not charged
Zimmerman has not been charged with any crime and is claiming self-defense under Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law, which eliminated a person's duty to retreat when threatened with serious bodily harm or death.
At Bethel United Church of Christ in downtown Ontario, Pastor Jonathon Edwards initially called on his small congregation to wear hoodies to the Sunday morning service in solidarity and respect to Martin.
When the request drew a better response than he expected, Edwards rewrote his sermon to focus on the issue.
"TrayvonMartin died because of our culture of being racist and that is a systemic issue," Edwards said. "People of faith have a very important role in fixing this issue."
About 30 people - a mix of churchgoers and members of the public - wore hoodies at Bethel on Sunday, Ontario resident Ruben Lopez said.
Lopez said he is hoping the incident will spark a larger movement and get the public to address race issues.
"It's opening a dialogue for people, planting that see to get people talking," Lopez said.
At the end of his sermon, Edwards said he made a plea to his congregation to "undo" the hate in the world.
"We need to end it because we don't want to have another TrayvonMartin," Edwards said.
Edwards said he has been following the story closely, in part, because he is very sensitive to racial issues. The shooting has ignited racial tensions in many parts of the country.
The pastor, who grew up in South Africa during apartheid, said he has seen the consequences of race-related issues.
"Racism is a front to keep people down," he said.
Edwards said he is also concerned about seeing racially motivated incidents occurring nearby.
Living in downtown Ontario, Edwards said he sees the problems and conflicts between the Latino and white populations.
But Edwards is also gay, and he says when he heard about the shooting, the incident hit close to home.
"I see racism and homophobia as very similar," he said. "I could have been Trayvon as a young teenager going out to get a drink."
When Lopez learned about the shooting, he said he wanted to do more than sign an online petition or share a link on a social network site.
Lopez, who has been going to Bethel for two years, immediately got on board and spread the word about the Sunday service.
"It's a travesty, this kid has been murdered and his killer walks free," Lopez said.
Sylvia Lee Mann, the music director at Bethel, described the news of the shooting as "devastating."
Mann works with disadvantage youth and says that incident could have happened to any of her students.
"A hoodie is no reason for someone to feel threaten, it's just no reason," she said.
Sunday's sermon as well as the display of hoodies was a chance to call attention to the issue.
"It's important for those of us who care to stand up and be counted," she said.
An attorney representing the Neighborhood Watch captain broadly defended his client and said he believes evidence will show that Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law was properly applied.
Zimmerman has not been charged in the Feb. 26 shooting that has raised questions about the handling of the case by Sanford, Fla., police.
Amid the outcry over the lack of charges against Zimmerman, the Sanford police chief and state's attorney both have stepped aside.
The U.S. Justice Department has opened a civil rights probe into the shooting.
A grand jury is scheduled to meet April 10 to consider evidence in the case.
The Associated Press contributed to the story.
Reach Liset @DBOntarioNow.
