US president Barack Obama has said if he had a son he would look like 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, the unarmed black teenager shot dead in a Florida suburb. 
As outrage about the case dominates the US media and has rallied civil rights activists, Mr Obama said the country had much soul-searching to do and "every aspect" of the shooting should be investigated.
Mr Martin was shot in the Orlando suburb of Sanford on February 26 by a neighbourhood watch security volunteer George Zimmerman.
Mr Zimmerman (28) was not charged by police because he said he was acting in self-defence.
All the teenager is said to have been carrying at the time of his death was an iced tea and a pack of sweets.
Rallies have been held in Florida and New York this week to demand justice for Mr Martin.
Speaking in personal terms, the president expressed sympathy for Mr Martin's parents.
"I can only imagine what these parents are going through and when I think about this boy I think about my own kids," Mr Obama said.
Aiming his message at Mr Martin's parents, he said: "If I had a son he'd look like Trayvon.
"I think they are right to expect that all of us as Americans to take this with the seriousness that it deserves and we're going to get to the bottom of what happened.
"Every parent in America should be able to understand why it is absolutely imperative that we investigate every aspect of this and everybody pulls together, federal state and local, to figure out exactly how this tragedy happened."
Mitt Romney, a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, agreed.
"What happened to TrayvonMartin is a tragedy," he said in a statement. "There needs to be a thorough investigation that reassures the public that justice is carried out with impartiality and integrity."
In Florida, a law known as "stand your ground" can prevent criminal or civil prosecution when someone is killed in self-defence.
The justice department and FBI have opened a civil rights investigation and a jury is considering whether to charge Mr Zimmerman.
Mr Martin's parents, civil rights activists and others who have rallied to the cause say they will not be satisfied until Mr Zimmerman is arrested.
The neighbourhood watch man had told a police dispatcher he thought Mr Martin looked suspicious when he saw him.
A confrontation followed after which Mr Zimmerman shot Mr Martin.
Sanford Police chief Bill Lee stepped down temporarily this week to try to cool the growing anger that his department had not arrested Mr Zimmerman.
Hours later, Governor Rick Scott announced that the local state attorney, Norman Wolfinger, had withdrawn from the case in hopes of "toning down the rhetoric" surrounding it.
