Dubai The killing of a 32-year-old Iraqi mother of five in California apparently for wearing a hijab has sparked a global furore across social networking websites Twitter and Facebook. 
Shaima Al Awadi was repeatedly hit with a tyre-iron and left in a pool of blood in her American home with a note that said: "Go back to your country you terrorist."
Many people have expressed their outrage on Twitter under the hashtag #RIPShaima, where they commented on the level of discrimination being witnessed in the US these days. The discussion thread raised the point that "hate crimes" seem to be on the rise.
While many tweeps conveyed their condolences to the Iraqi victim's family, others expressed their anger and disgust towards the irony behind the note found by Shaima's body.
A tweet by @iiamelii said: "Ironically, Shaima came from Iraq for a better life. So much for EUR~American liberation abroad... and at home."
Numerous tweets, including one by @loonwatchers questioned whether wearing a hijab in the US makes you a target. Many tweeps showed concern over their safety as Muslims and Arabs living in the country.
Others also discussed the increasing number of hate crimes taking place in the US on multiple links posted on Facebook, explaining that the hijab is a symbol of peace, not hate.
A video posted on YouTube of Shaima's 17-year-old daughter questioning her mother's killer about the reasons behind the attack has also gone viral. In an interview with Kusi News, Fatima Al Awadi cried on camera asking the killer why he took her best friend away from her: "We are not terrorists, you are a terroristEUR you're an animal, whoever you are."
The video that has been re-posted on Twitter and Facebook, has added to the anger.
Shaima's case has been linked to the recent killing of a teenage African American boy in Florida, Trayvon Martin, who was wearing a "hoodie" at the time of his death and was mistaken to have been carrying drugs.
A tweet by @Butheina said: "Hoodie or hijab - this needs to stop."
Another tweet by @Yemmeyummy read: "First #TravyonMartin killed for wearing a hoodie & armed with skittles & a drink. & now #RIPShaima for wearing hijab."
