WASHINGTON -- The nation's top economic policymakers said Wednesday that although Europe's long-simmering sovereign-debt crisis continues to weigh on growth, its threat to the U.S. economy has diminished significantly in recent months.
Testifying before the House oversight committee, Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said Europe had made progress in assuring investors of the safety of the euro currency and ensuring market access for all eurozone economies. As a result, strains on the global financial system have eased and the outlook has brightened, they said. 
"In the past few months, financial stresses in Europe have lessened, which has contributed to an improved tone of financial markets around the world, including in the United States," Mr. Bernanke said.
Mr. Geithner said, "The European economies at the center of the crisis have made very significant progress."
Spy for Israel sentenced
WASHINGTON -- A former National Aeronautics and Space Administration scientist was sentenced to 13 years in prison Wednesday for attempted spying after admitting he tried to pass classified data on U.S. satellites to Israel.
Stewart D. Nozette, 54, of Chevy Chase, Md., was sentenced to the term agreed to by prosecutors and defense lawyers in September when Mr. Nozette pleaded guilty to attempted espionage. He was also sentenced for an earlier guilty plea in a false-claims and tax-evasion case. U.S. District Judge Paul Friedman ordered Mr. Nozette to pay about $218,000 in restitution.
March for slain Fla. teen
NEW YORK -- The parents of a black teenager shot to death by a Hispanic neighborhood watch captain in Florida marched in his memory on Wednesday in Manhattan with hundreds of other people demanding arrests in the case.
"We're not going to stop until we get justice," said the teenager's father, Tracy Martin, after thanking the crowd. "My son did not deserve to die."
Mr. Martin's son, Trayvon Martin, 17, was killed Feb. 26, in Sanford, Fla. He was returning to a gated community in the city after buying candy at a convenience store.
Jewelry theft ring busted
RICHMOND, Va. -- Federal officials have arrested seven people in a criminal ring that stole more than $4.6 million in jewelry in at least seven states, the U.S. attorney's office said Wednesday.
The thieves, part of an organized network with ties to South America, allegedly conducted surveillance on jewelry stores and then stole from traveling sales representatives, said Neil H. MacBride, U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia.
'Kony' creator hospitalized
SAN DIEGO -- Invisible Children filmmaker Jason Russell, who created the viral "Kony 2012" video, will remain in the hospital for several weeks for what his wife described as "reactive psychosis."
In a statement released Wednesday, his wife and other family members said they believe this condition caused him to act strangely last week, ranting and roaming around a San Diego street in the nude.
Asian population soars
WASHINGTON -- The Asian population of the United States grew faster than any other racial or ethnic group in the last decade, according to a new U.S. Census Bureau report.
The number of Americans identifying themselves as Asian alone or in combination with another race surged 45.6 percent from 11.9 million in 2000 to 17.3 million in 2010, driven mainly by international migration, census officials said Wednesday.
ROTC back at Harvard
CAMBRIDGE, Mass -- Harvard University announced Wednesday that it would open a campus office for the Army ROTC later this year, a move that the Army believes will lead to greater participation in the program by Harvard undergraduates.
The agreement is the latest by several prominent universities to welcome the Reserve Officers' Training Corps back on campus four decades after they banned it because of the Vietnam War. Those bans continued into recent years on the grounds that the military discriminated against gay and lesbian troops by barring them from serving openly.
