SANFORD -- They came from nearby neighborhoods as well as Orlando and Daytona Beach. They came from DeBary, DeLand and New Smyrna Beach. And New York and California, too.
Thousands of people gathered at Fort Mellon Park on the south shore of Lake Monroe, less than three miles from the site of 17- year-old TrayvonMartin's fatal shooting on Feb. 26. They chanted for justice. They waved signs and cheered when civil-rights activists, such as the Rev. Al Sharpton, Benjamin Jealous and Dick Gregory, as well as Martin's parents, called for an arrest.
The call has gone out across the country," said the Rev. L. Ronald Durham, pastor of Greater Friendship Baptist Church in Daytona Beach and one of the rally's organizers. 
And many of those who answered the call pointed to what they believe was an injustice -- the death of a boy carrying a can of iced tea and a bag of Skittles candy.
It could have been my child," said Reggie Sandilands, the New Smyrna Beach father of a 22-year-old Bethune-Cookman University student. "This goes on every day, all over the place, not just in Sanford."
By "this," he was referring to young black men being viewed as suspicious, something dangerous, something they're not.
And he is convinced race played a role in the way the Sanford police handled the investigation.
George Zimmerman, a 28-year-old neighborhood watch captain who has been described as both white and Hispanic, told police he shot Martin in self defense.
Had it been a black man that shot a white kid, he would have been locked up immediately," Sandilands said.
Marie Rudd of DeBary came to the rally with her husband and granddaughter.
Several years earlier, when she lived in Sanford, she got to know Martin, who played piano with her niece.
He was such a loving young man," Rudd said.
He was just very friendly. Everyone adored him."
She heard about his death on the television news the day after the shooting and is outraged an arrest hasn't been made.
I truly hope that justice prevails and Zimmerman gets what he deserves," Rudd said.
He killed the child," she said.
The kinds of assumptions she believes Zimmerman made about Martin -- that he was a dangerous criminal because he was young, black, unfamiliar and wearing a hooded sweatshirt, are all too common, Rudd said.
It could be my child or your child," she said.
Susan DuPree of DeLand and her friend Martha Bryant-Hall of Maitland -- veterans of decades of civil rights marches -- commiserated about having to come together once again.
We've done this before," said DuPree, who was wearing an Occupy DeLand button.
Another friend, Christe Ashley of DeLand, said the Occupy movement and those supporting Martin's family in calling for Zimmerman's arrest have one basic commonality.
We're all human beings," she said.
Where there is injustice, we need to stand up against it."
Rev. John Long, senior pastor at Tubman-King Community Church in Daytona Beach, arrived at the rally and felt a wave of emotions.
It's a mixture. It's sadness at the reason why we're gathered. There's also great pride to see so many expressing a spirit of unity and peace," said Long, who was among the speakers addressing the crowd.
Long and others, including TrayvonMartin's parents -- Tracy Martin and Sabrina Fulton -- reacted to one of Thursday's developments, the announcement that Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee will step down temporarily.
It's long overdue," Long said.
Fulton thanked God for the gathering before commenting on Lee's status.
It's temporary relief but we need a permanent relief," she said.
We need an arrest today."
