Gov. Rick Scott and Attorney General Pam Bondi have appointed a special prosecutor to take over the investigation of the shooting of TrayvonMartin, responding to increased pressure from national civil rights leaders outraged over the killing of the unarmed, black 17-year-old.
Scott appointed State Attorney Angela Corey of Jacksonville as special prosecutor on the same day beleaguered Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee temporarily stepped down after being bitterly criticized for not arresting George Zimmerman, the neighborhood watch volunteer who shot Martin and claimed self-defense. 
Scott also appointed a task force to look into the state's first-in-the-nation "stand your ground" law, which allows individuals to use deadly force when they feel threatened.
Scott's actions came two days after he met with a group of 50 black lawyers and civil rights activists who asked for a special prosecutor and a task force on racial profiling, which they said was at the heart of the Martin shooting and behind many other "stand your ground" defenses.
And the governor's announcement came the day after several Democratic black state lawmakers asked him to remove Seminole County State Attorney Norman Wolfinger, whom they accused of being too close to Lee and the sheriff's office.
The lawmakers hailed Scott's swift response. "This will temporarily prevent the powder keg from exploding right now, because the black community will feel that at least there will be somebody who will give a good look to see if Mr. Zimmerman committed a crime," said Sen. Gary Siplin, D-Orlando, whose district abuts Sanford.
In a letter to Scott agreeing to turn over the Martin case, Wolfinger said he was stepping aside "in the interest of public safety" and to "avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest."
Earlier Thursday, Lee announced he was temporarily stepping down to let passions cool. His decision came after a split city commission gave him a "no confidence" vote. Lee has said evidence in the case supported Zimmerman's claim that the Feb. 26 shooting of Martin was self-defense.
Civil rights groups have held rallies in Florida and New York, saying the shooting was unjustified. Al Sharpton and the slain teen's family addressed a fiery crowd of about 1,000 supporters Thursday in downtown Sanford.
"We want an arrest, we want a conviction and we want him sentenced for the murder of my son," said Martin's father, Tracy.
The Justice Department and FBI have opened a civil rights investigation. Wolfinger had scheduled a grand jury to convene April 10 to determine whether to charge Zimmerman. That grand jury is still scheduled to meet, but not under Wolfinger's supervision.
Scott said the task force looking into the 2005 law would be headed by Lt. Gov. Jennifer Carroll, who is black, and the Rev. R.B. Holmes Jr., a Tallahassee civil rights icon and pastor of the Bethel Missionary Baptist Church.
"As we exercise our right to be free and secure both in public and in the privacy of our own homes, it is important that we have an open and honest discussion on these issues, so that we might help avoid such tragedies in the future," Scott said in a statement.
Sen. Oscar Braynon, who represents the South Florida district where Martin lived with his mother, said he hopes to be appointed to the panel.
"These steps are the kinds of steps we need to take to get that justice that everybody's rallying about as we speak," said Braynon, D-Miami Gardens.
U.S. Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Miramar, said the shooting confirmed his "greatest fear" about the "stand your ground" law: "This law is a license to kill."
U.S. Rep. Allen West, R-Plantation, said on his Facebook page that Zimmerman "should have been held in custody and certainly should not be walking free, still having a concealed weapons carry permit. From my reading, it seems this young man was pursued and there was no probable cause to engage him, certainly not pursue and shoot him."
Staff writer George Bennett and The Associated Press contributed to this story.
~ dara_kam@pbpost.comResidents can take bus to Sanford rally
The Urban League of Palm Beach County will bus residents to Monday's "Justice Rally for TrayvonMartin" at Sanford's Centennial Park.
The group is charging $28. The bus will leave at 11 a.m. Monday, and tickets must be bought by noon today.
Contact Beverly Morrison at (561) 310-4946 or beverlymorrison2010@comcast.net
-- Andrew Abramson
