Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich accused President Barack Obama of improperly politicizing the death of a young black man in Florida. 
The Republican presidential contest swerved onto sensitive racial territory over the weekend, with two candidates accusing President Barack Obama of improperly politicizing the death of a young black man in Florida.
The comments by Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich momentarily shifted the spotlight away from a resounding Southern primary victory by Mr. Santorum, who captured deeply conservative Louisiana on Saturday with the backing of many evangelical Christians. Mitt Romney, who retains a daunting lead in delegates to the party's nominating convention, placed a distant second.
After TrayvonMartin, an unarmed 17-year-old, was shot to death by a neighborhood-watch monitor near Orlando who thought he looked suspicious, Mr. Obama personalized the matter on Friday, saying, ''If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon.'' The killer, who claimed self-defense, has not been arrested. Mr. Obama called for a full investigation. 
Mr. Santorum accused the president of politicizing the matter and ''trying to drive a wedge into the country'' rather than trying ''to bring people together.''
Newt Gingrich, who finished a distant third in Louisiana, went so far as to call Mr. Obama's comment ''disgraceful.''
''Is the president suggesting that if it had been a white who had been shot that would be O.K., because it wouldn't look like him?'' he asked. ''That's just nonsense.''
It was a rare invocation of race on the campaign trail, and both candidates' remarks were sharply rebuffed by David Plouffe, a senior Obama adviser. He told ''Fox News Sunday'' that Mr. Obama was just trying to show empathy to the Martin family and that the Republicans' comments were ''irresponsible'' and ''reprehensible.''
Just as a Romney aide last week cut short attention to his candidate's decisive victory in Illinois by suggesting that Mr. Romney's views were as changeable as an Etch A Sketch toy, Mr. Santorum seemed to risk overshadowing the lift he got in Louisiana. By Sunday, he was treading more cautiously; he offered no criticism of Mr. Obama during a CBS News interview, saying only that he felt deeply for the dead child's family.
Mr. Santorum's showing in Louisiana, however resounding, is unlikely to change the dynamics of the race. He won 49 percent of the vote, to 26.7 percent for Mr. Romney, 15.9 percent for Mr. Gingrich and 6.1 percent for Ron Paul.
But only 20 delegates were up for grabs on Saturday, and Mr. Santorum won only 10, while 5 went to Mr. Romney, and 5 are uncommitted. So Mr. Santorum still has fewer than half the number of Romney delegates. The latest tally from The Associated Press gives Mr. Romney 568, to 273 for Mr. Santorum.
Mr. Gingrich's third-place performance was an embarrassing setback for a candidate who had looked to the South to help revive his candidacy. He received no delegates, despite having spent nearly a week in Louisiana. Mr. Paul has yet to score even a second-place showing anywhere.
Mr. Santorum can still complicate efforts by Mr. Romney to capture the 1,144 delegates needed for nomination. That has raised speculation that he is interested either in pursuing the presidency again in 2016, or being the vice-presidential nominee this year, to help deliver the conservative, evangelical, Southern vote Mr. Romney has had difficulty attracting.
Robert Hogan, a political scientist at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, said Mr. Santorum had mobilized his supporters through networks of churches. ''These are issue voters who are committed to Santorum's candidacy and will vote regardless of what barriers are put in the way,'' he said.
But a major question remains over Mr. Santorum's candidacy: Can he draw voters from beyond his base of social conservatives?
John Brabender, a strategist for Mr. Santorum, turned that around. He said Mr. Romney's showing in Louisiana showed that he had ''regional problems.'' Even if Mr. Santorum cannot win the number of delegates needed for the nomination, he said, Mr. Romney cannot, either.
''If a candidate can't show that amount of support, we go to another level,'' he said, referring to a brokered convention in August.
