March 21--The young man walked slowly, leisurely, past as I stood and waited for Desi to relieve himself. The young man didn't speak. I didn't speak.
I walked Desi around the corner and returned just as the young man was heading back, carrying a white plastic bag, probably from the gas station a block away.
This time, Desi barked at him, fiercely, with all of his 25-pound might. 
"Sorry," I said. "Ferocious dog on board."
"That's OK," he said. Then he smiled.
It was a smile I'd seen on the face of my brother, my nephew, my friends' sons. And I stood, sadly, realizing that I hadn't seen those faces when I first saw him.
What I saw was a guy with baggy pants, not in school, not at work, walking down the street in the middle of the day. I was at home recuperating from surgery. So in my mind, he shouldn't have been there. I didn't wonder who he was or whose he was. I wondered where he was going. I was suspicious.
That is the plight of black men, particularly young black men in America. Because of some, others are harassed, feared, tested and destroyed -- and in Florida two weeks ago, killed.
Questionable suspicion
But the difference between George Zimmerman and me is that Zimmerman followed and killed 17-year-old TrayvonMartin, whom he found suspicious just because he was walking through the neighborhood.
Trayvon was heading back to the house where his father lives in a gated community in Sanford, Fla. He was carrying a bag of Skittles and an iced tea when his destiny met Zimmerman.
Zimmerman called 911 to report Trayvon. He had called 911 dozens of times before the night he killed the boy, the Orlando Sentinel reported.
That last night, he told the police, "this guy looks like he's up to no good, or he's on drugs or something. It's raining and he's just walking around looking at houses. He's just staring, looking at all the houses. Now he's coming toward me. He's got his hand in his waistband. Something's wrong with him."
What Zimmerman did not know then was that Trayvon also made a call to his girlfriend to tell her some guy was following him. Trayvon was scared. She advised him to run. Trayvon said no.
Zimmerman told the dispatcher, "He's coming to check me out. He's got something in his hands. I don't know what his deal is. Can we get an officer over here? These assholes always get away. Shit, he's running."
Zimmerman got out of his car to chase Trayvon.
"Are you following him?" the dispatcher asked. Zimmerman, according to the Sentinel, calmly responded, "Yeah."
"OK, we don't need you to do that," said the dispatcher.
Zimmerman chased Trayvon anyway. At that point, he was no frightened resident or concerned neighborhood watch captain.
He was a hunter.
He was after his prey.
And he was ignoring the police.
WWB justifies murder?
Witnesses later heard a boy's screams, and a single shot -- although police would later say the screams were undetermined and could have been Zimmerman. Yeah, right.
Witnesses came out to find Zimmerman on top of the 17-year-old kid he has since confessed to shooting to death.
Not at his house.
Not during the commission of a crime.
But because he was WWB, walking while black, and "these assholes always get away."
Sanford police decided that a Florida law that allows residents to keep themselves and their property safe applies to a man who disobeyed police, hunted down a child and killed him.
They are wrong.
So if the city of Sanford and state of Florida won't do what they should have already done -- arrest Zimmerman and charge him with first-degree murder -- then the U.S. Justice Department, which announced that it is investigating the case, will have to do it.
And to every vigilante, concerned resident, or neighborhood watch captain in America, here is the lesson: When you see a kid walking down the street, ask him how he is, and see if he smiles.
If you do, you may just see your son or your nephew or just another kid on the way back from the store, carrying Skittles and an iced tea. If you don't, try harder. That young man may just be afraid of you, too.
Contact ROCHELLE RILEY: rriley99@freepress.com
___ (c)2012 the Detroit Free Press Visit the Detroit Free Press at www.freep.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
