March 26--The TrayvonMartin case rapidly capturing the nation's attention possesses many sad elements -- the tragic shooting death of an unarmed teen, the lackadaisical initial response from local law enforcers and an over-zealous neighborhood guardian in Sanford, Fla., where Martin was gunned down on Feb. 26. 
Boiled down to one word, the incident puts on display what drives far too many in the United States -- fear.
Martin, 17, was walking home after a trip to the store to purchase a soft drink and candy on Feb. 26. Before Martin could return home, he was confronted by George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer in Sanford, a suburb of Orlando. Zimmerman pursued Martin, fought with him and then fatally shot him.
In an utterly unbelievable turn of events, Zimmerman has yet to be charged in connection with Martin's death. During a police interview, Zimmerman, 28, apparently cited Florida's Stand Your Ground law, a state code that supporters say bolsters self-defense. Granting that many questions remain unanswered at this point, it's a mystery how the shooter felt threatened by someone who was attempting to run away from him.
Zimmerman, according to police records, spotted Martin on the evening of Feb. 26, calling him "suspicious." Zimmerman, who had called the police 46 times in the past year, defied a 911 operator's request to not pursue Martin. Those 911 records portray an overzealous watchdog who seemed preoccupied with targeting black males in and around his neighborhood. Martin was black, and Zimmerman is Hispanic.
On the night of the shooting, Zimmerman called police to report, "Hey, we've had some break-ins in my neighborhood, and there's a real suspicious guy at Retreat View Circle. This guy looks like he's up to no good." It's difficult to imagine a world in which a 140-pound high school student carrying a can of iced tea and a bag of Skittles would pose a serious threat, especially to a 250-pound man carrying a concealed 9-milimeter handgun.
Such is the state of Fearful America, a place where no amount of concealed-carry and self-defense laws is ever enough to stop the looming shadow of crime, a perception that defies reality and reason. The violent crime rate across the country is on a downward trend, yet no amount of evidence is enough to calm the fears of some Americans. From what we know so far, it appears that Zimmerman may have been held captive by consuming worries that every stranger he encountered was a suspect. If so, that overriding fear proved lethal for TrayvonMartin.
The outcry of a nation amplified through social media finally caught the attention of authorities last week. State and federal investigators reported that they were taking a fresh look into the case. A more difficult task for the entire nation will be to put fears about crime and self-defense into their proper perspective.
___ (c)2012 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
