Close to 1,000 people prayed, shouted and chanted during a downtown Jacksonville rally Saturday asking for criminal charges to be filed against the man who fatally shot teenager TrayvonMartin in Sanford last month. 
After walking from The Jacksonville Landing, the crowd gathered in the riverfront parking lot of the Duval County Courthouse.
They were near the offices of State Attorney Angela Corey, whom Gov. Rick Scott assigned Thursday to investigate the killing as a special prosecutor, and much of their message was aimed at her.
"We are looking at you. ... We expect you to do the right thing," Isaiah Rumlin, president of the Jacksonville branch NAACP said.
State Rep. Mia Jones, D-Jacksonville, told the crowd that "in Jacksonville, this is a priority for us."
Referencing Corey, she said that "we need to show that we respect that she is hard on crime," Jones said. "...We respect that she is for the victims. And the victim in this case is TrayvonMartin."
Martin, 17, was shot by a volunteer in a neighborhood watch group while walking in a gated development. The volunteer, George Zimmerman, has argued he acted in self-defense after following Martin, although the teen was not armed and a police dispatcher had told Zimmerman not to follow him.
Martin was black. Zimmerman is Hispanic with a light complexion. People calling for Zimmerman's arrest argue he practiced a form of racial profiling.
Attorney Benjamin Crump, who represents Martin's family, told the crowd they were part of a wave of demonstrations in Martin's memory by people of all races.
"It's not a black or white thing. It's a right or wrong thing," he said during a light rain that scattered some demonstrators.
As the roll of speakers continued, participants held up signs including "Americans Demand Justice" and "Trayvon was ran down and murdered."
People expressed a range of concerns about public safety and race.
"People are tired of 'just-us.' When people are arrested, it's always us," said Carolyn Walker, 73, who is black.
Donald Foy, Jacksonville chapter president of the anti-crime group MAD DADS, said he was troubled to see a neighborhood watch effort invoked in defense of a shooting death.
"He overstepped his authority," Foy said of Zimmerman.
Linda Stacy, 65, who is white, said she identifies with Martin's family because she has grandchildren the same age and felt a need to speak against the shooting.
"I feel like if I don't do something to oppose it, I'm part of it," she said.
Steve Patterson: (904) 359-4263
MORE ONLINE
Watch a video of the rally and see more photos of the event. jacksonville.com
