March 24--AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -- On the day President Obama commented for the first time on the fatal shooting of unarmed TrayvonMartin in Sanford, Miami Heat players, including Dwyane Wade and LeBron James, injected themselves into the conversation with powerful visual statements.
Martin, 17, was shot a month ago after a confrontation in a gated community with neighborhood-watch captain George Zimmerman, with the youth's body discovered Feb. 26. Zimmerman, who has claimed he shot Martin in self-defense, has not been charged. 
Martin was wearing a "hoodie" hooded sweatshirt when he was shot, which has added to the debate about racial profiling.
To that end, Wade on Friday posted to his Facebook page a picture of him wearing a hoodie. On his Twitter account, he simply posted, "#hoodies #stereotype #trayvonmartin" with a link to the photograph of himself wearing a hoodie.
Later, James posted a picture on his Twitter account of the Heat team in hooded sweatshirts, taken at the team hotel following Friday morning's practice, with the Twitter post, "#WeAreTrayvonMartin #Hoodies #Stereotyped #WeWantJustice."
Various rallies held in support of Martin have asked participants to wear hoodies.
"I'm a father," Wade told the South Florida Sun Sentinel. "It's support of the tragic thing that has taken place. No matter what color, race, we're all fathers.
"When you think about what that family's going through, it hits you hard and it hurts your heart to think about it. Just anything you can do, obviously we can't bring him back, but anything you can do to get behind and support is what we're doing."
That led James to gather his teammates for the group photo in the team-logo sweatshirts.
"It was a powerful statement today after shootaround and back at the hotel by our team," coach Erik Spoelstra said of the photo session. "And it really is a tragic story. And the more you learn about it, the more confused you get. But for them to come together, to draw more light on the subject, I think is a powerful move, and we all stand behind them, not only the staff, but the Miami Heat organization."
The team issued a statement standing by the photo.
"Our hearts go out to the family and loved ones of TrayvonMartin for their loss and for everyone involved in this terrible tragedy," the statement read. "We support our players and join them in hoping that their images and our logo can be part of the national dialogue and can help in our nation's healing."
The circumstances hit home with many Heat players.
"I think it humbled a lot of us, because a majority of us have kids of our own," forward Udonis Haslem said. "A lot of us have little boys and I couldn't imagine if my son went to the store just to get some Skittles and a pop or an iced tea and didn't come home."
Several Heat players wore messages of memoriam for TrayvonMartin on their sneakers during Friday's game against the Detroit Pistons at the Palace of Auburn Hills, with one on James' shoe reading, "RIP TrayvonMartin," while Chris Bosh wore "We Want Justice" on his sneaker.
In advance of the team photo, Wade said he felt it was the perfect time to present the photo of him in the hoodie.
"It's a picture that I've taken before. I thought it was great opportunity to use it," he said. "I've never used it before, really. So that was a great opportunity to use it. Just to get the people to understand what we're in support of."
Wade, a father of two, said he felt it imperative to enter the conversation. His girlfriend, actress Gabrielle Union, had already voiced her outrage over the handling of the case.
"We discussed it," Wade said. "I only start doing something when I find out more information on it. Early on, I didn't hear the [911] call, I didn't have a lot of information. So I wasn't going to just jump into it. She knew a lot early on about everything. That's why she was very vocal."
The only Heat players not in the team "hoodie" photograph released through James' Twitter account were forward Mike Miller, who is not traveling with the team due to an ankle injury, and forward Shane Battier, who is from the Detroit area and was at lunch with his in-laws.
Battier said he stood by the message.
"Any time we can bring light to situations that need attention and possibly bring positive change, that's why we should use our platform," he said.
iwinderman@tribune.com Follow him at twitter.com/iraheatbeat
___ (c)2012 the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) Visit the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) at www.sun-sentinel.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
