March 26--Police said there are no indications so far that a Brentwood man broke the law early Sunday when he shot a 24-year-old intruder to a Foster City home. 
However, the District Attorney's office will make the decision on possible criminal charges for the shooter, who is in his 40s and was visiting the home on the 600 block of Crane Avenue, said Foster City police Capt. Jon Froomin.
The intruder, a San Mateo resident, was in surgery Sunday morning. Froomin said he didn't know the man's condition, but added he was conscious and breathing after the shooting. Police haven't released either man's identity.
Froomin said an occupant of the house heard a person walking around the home trying to open doors and called 911 at 4:22 a.m. Officers arrived about two minutes later, just as the shooter fired an unspecified number of shots. The confrontation happened as the shooter was about 15 feet from the intruder, who Froomin believes was unarmed. There was no indication of a struggle and police are still trying to confirm suspicions the intruder was a burglar.
Froomin said state law allows people to use force to defend themselves inside their own homes. It's not a hard and fast rule though, and must applied the varying circumstances of each individual case. Investigators will compile the evidence and forward it to prosecutors for review.
The shooter is not in police custody and was one of three guests and two residents sleeping at the
home as part of a family gathering. Froomin declined to specify the relationship between the shooter and homeowners. It was not clear if the shooter was the legal owner of the pistol.
This shooting comes as a national debate rages over a Florida law that allows residents to use deadly force when they feel threatened. The so-called stand your ground is one of the central themes in the case of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teen shot to death by a neighborhood watch block captain.
Contact Joshua Melvin at 650-348-4335. Follow him at Twitter.com/melvinreport.
___ (c)2012 the San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, Calif.) Visit the San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, Calif.) at www.mercurynews.com/san-mateo-county Distributed by MCT Information Services
