Former Gov. Jeb Bush had this to say seven years ago when he signed a sweeping new Florida gun law:
"It's common sense to allow people to defend themselves. When you're in a position where you're being threatened ... to have to retreat and put yourself in a very precarious position defies common sense."
Who could be against common sense? 
That common sense manifested itself in Sanford last month in the death of Trayvon Martin, 17, who made the fatal mistake of walking through a gated community while appearing to be "up to no good," according to an armed and zealous community-watch volunteer.
Common sense told George Zimmerman, 28, that the black teenager was trouble.
"He's got his hand in his waistband, and he's a black male," Zimmerman told the police dispatcher as he monitored Martin.
"Yup, he's got something in his hand, and I don't know what the deal is," Zimmerman told the dispatcher.
Common sense told Zimmerman that he was justified in being alarmed by a black teenager holding something in his hand and "looking at all the houses."
The fact that Martin had a bag of Skittles and an Arizona iced tea in his hand didn't make common sense to Zimmerman. Or that the boy was there not to burglarize the neighborhood, but because he was walking back to his father's home.
Zimmerman's common sense led him to tell the 911 dispatcher that "these ***holes always get away." And he wasn't going to allow it.
So even though the neighborhood in question was suggestively named The Retreat at Twin Lakes, Zimmerman felt no obligation to abandon his pursuit of the teenager, even after a dispatcher told him, "We don't need you to do that."
And when that surveillance led to a confrontation between Zimmerman and the unarmed teenager, and the boy was shot and killed, that common-sense "stand your ground" law was able to guide the Sanford Police Department in not charging Zimmerman.
Especially after Zimmerman explained that he killed the teenager because he was afraid for his own safety.
As that common-sense law says: If a person is attacked in "any place where he or she has a right to be," there's no duty to retreat, but instead there's a right to "stand his or her ground and meet force with force, including deadly force" if necessary.
So common sense told Sanford police that this was justifiable homicide. Case closed.
Nothing more would have come from all this common sense if Martin's family and friends hadn't screamed bloody murder to a nation that heard their cries.
Sanford's handling of the case will be reviewed by state and federal authorities. Sanford's police chief temporarily resigned.
And Florida, that bastion of common sense, looks bad.
So bad that even the NRA-enamored Gov. Rick Scott has taken time out from his urine-farming initiatives to call for further investigation of the stand-your-ground shooting law that has kept Zimmerman a free man.
I guess it makes common sense for Florida lawmakers to run for cover now that it's clear they've been cheerleading a law that gives legal cover to untrained lethal hotheads who use racial stereotyping to guide their own common sense.
~ frank_cerabino@pbpost.com
