As details keep trickling in about the death of TrayvonMartin, Edith Bush can't help but think back to her childhood in the Deep South, where segregation and racial discourse were a part of life.
Bush, a West Palm Beach-based civil rights activist, said learning that Martin was shot by a 28-year-old white man who is claiming self-defense under Florida's "stand your ground" law mirrors the Ku Klux Klan storming through her segregated Alabama hometown. Martin, a black 17-year-old from Miami, was unarmed when he was killed Feb. 26 in Sanford.
"This to me is just legalized lynching. It's wide open, almost like an uncovered Ku Klux Klan," Bush said, adding that George Zimmerman, the crime watch volunteer who shot Martin, would probably be in jail facing murder charges had he been black. Zimmerman has not been charged.
"We know that if it had been the other way around, that the young man had been white and the shooter had been black, the stand-up law would not have been applied. They would not have even had mentioned it," she said. 
Bush's outrage over Martin's death echoes the sentiments of many in Palm Beach County's black community, and across the nation, who say the incident is an example of a constant battle against racial profiling and discrimination decades after the civil rights movement.
President Obama, the nation's first black president, also weighed in Friday for the first time about Martin's death. In a message to Martin's parents, Obama said, "If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon. I think they are right to expect that all of us as Americans take this with the seriousness that it deserves, and we're going to get to the bottom of what happened."
Multicultural society
But activists in Palm Beach County's Hispanic community say it's also an example of the ongoing struggle among minorities to accept each other. Zimmerman's mother is Hispanic.
"It's always going to be an issue in our country because we are a multicultural society," said Aileen Josephs, a West Palm Beach immigration attorney born in Mexico.
She added that community leaders should work toward uniting minorities "so when we see a black youth in the street, we don't assume he's a criminal and when we see a Latino, we don't automatically assume he's undocumented and ask for a green card."
According to police, Martin was on his way back to his family's home in a gated community Feb. 26 after buying Skittles and a can of iced tea at a nearby convenience story. Zimmerman saw Martin, who was wearing a hooded jacket, and called police because he was suspicious of the teenager.
The 911 call between Zimmerman and police reveals Zimmerman followed Martin against the dispatcher's advice. When police arrived, they found Martin facedown, lifeless. Zimmerman, who was bleeding, said he shot the teenager in self-defense.
Those who know Zimmerman say he is not a racist. High school friends have described him as a good guy, and neighbors in Sanford said he was passionate about the community's safety.
Zimmerman's family has said he's sensitive to minorities. They have pointed out several times that he is half Hispanic, and in a letter to the Orlando Sentinel, Zimmerman's father described his son as a "Spanish-speaking minority."
Cultural tensions
Manuel Guerra Casas, a Mexican immigrant from Indiantown, said the case has revealed the cultural tensions that sometimes exist between Hispanics and blacks, which can lead to derogatory remarks and violence.
"It makes me very sad to think that we as Hispanics in the United States have these prejudices against our black brothers," he said. "It's very sad to see that we place these labels and think of blacks a certain way."
Beyond racial tensions, the stand-your-ground law allows people like Zimmerman to take actions with deadly consequences, said Addie Greene, a Mangonia Park councilwoman and former Palm Beach County commissioner.
"When you passed that law, you gave people the ability to be bounty hunters," Greene said. "It's created bounty hunters on our young boys, black or white."
But most of the time, Greene said, it's the black community that has to be most wary about these laws.
"You are creating a situation that will bring back racial tensions and set us back 100 years," she said.
Greene, Bush and dozens of other black community leaders will board a bus Monday morning in West Palm Beach to attend the Justice Rally for TrayvonMartin in Sanford that afternoon.
NAACP to rally
Several Florida chapters of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People are planning another rally Saturday at the Sanford courthouse.
Greene said that hearing recordings of Zimmerman's conversation with police dispatchers the night Martin was killed leaves no doubt in her mind that the crime watch volunteer was on a mission.
"I listen to it over and over and over again on CNN and the tapes, and if I close my eyes and don't know what color that child is, the tone of the voice of this man with the gun, it was like he was out looking for someone," Greene said.
"To me, this guy would have shot him no matter what color he was," she said.
She said Martin's death reminded her of the death of Jerrod Miller, a 16-year-old black boy who was shot and killed in 2005 by a rookie Delray Beach police officer after the unlicensed teen drove his car into the Delray Full Service Center campus during a school dance. The officer, Darren Cogoni, was cleared by a grand jury, then fired.
The grand jury's decision enraged Miller's relatives and local black leaders, who said they thought race played a role in the decision to clear the white officer.
Bush said the deaths of teenagers like Martin and Miller scare black parents, who find themselves talking to their teenagers about ways to stay safe while following the law and respecting authorities.
The 2011 State of America's Children report by the Children's Defense Fund showed that in 2007, black males ages 15-19 were more than five times as likely as white males and more than twice as likely as Hispanic males to be killed by a firearm. The study also showed that between 1979 and 2007, firearm deaths of black children and teens increased by 61 percent, while the deaths of white children and teens decreased by about 54 percent.
"You say to them, 'Make sure you respect the law, respect people,' and other people don't have to tell their children that," Bush said. "People are just mad, because you just don't do things like this."
The Associated Press contributed to this story.
~ ana_valdes@pbpost.com
