The co-chair of a local neighborhood watch group said the Florida man accused of shooting an unarmed teen should have let police handle the situation.
"Personally, I think the shooter responded the wrong way. I think he should have kept it in the hands of law enforcement," said Harold Cox Jr., co-chair of the Manor Avenue and Court Neighborhood Association. 
 The shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in Sanford, Fla., on Feb. 26 has touched off a storm of protest from across the country. The teen was shot by George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch captain, who said he started following Martin because he looked suspicious.
 Zimmerman said he shot Martin in self-defense, although a police dispatcher had discouraged Zimmerman from following Martin in the first place. Zimmerman faces no criminal charges, but authorities on several levels are continuing to investigate the killing.
 The shooting also has renewed debate about Florida's "Stand Your Ground" self-defense law.
 Cox said volunteers in his group are advised to not approach people who might be involved in illegal activities.
 "Be careful, don't put yourself at risk. If you see some type of activity you're not happy with, call 911. That's basically the easiest route," Cox said.
 Jack Campbell, chief deputy of the Sangamon County Sheriff 's Office, had the same advice for anyone who believes someone is acting suspicious.
 "Definitely, do not take any proactive steps to follow that person. Don't confront them," Campbell said.
 "We want neighborhood watches to be our eyes and ears."
 When someone calls 911 about a suspicious person, dispatchers are going to ask for a description of the person, including their clothes and their approximate height and weight. If the person is in a vehicle, observers should note the make, model and license plates if possible.
 The neighborhood watch group patrols regularly in Cox's neighborhood, which is near Lawrence Avenue and Livingston Street.
 "Crime has gone down a lot" as a result of the patrols, he said. "You have more of your neighbors involved now. Everybody is looking out for each other."
 John Reynolds can be reached at 788-1524. The Associated Press contributed to this article.
