My "little" brother is a police officer in Maryland who is 6 feet  tall. We're a bit more than two years apart in age, so when we were  young we played together -- and, of course, got in trouble together. 
These days, he often wears baggy clothes, topped with one of those  Gilligan-type hats. He has been known to hug his sisters  enthusiastically off the floor upon seeing them. (Who needs  chiropractors?) He's also a great father to a son about 10 weeks older  than mine, and a fine uncle. The first time he met my son, he calmed him  by resting the baby's head in the crook of his arm, and sure enough, he  was asleep in less than a minute.  
Like my brother, TrayvonMartin meant something to his family. He has  parents, a young brother and extended family that love him. To another  man, the 17-year-old wasn't even human. He was suspicious, and that  apparently was based on nothing more than his skin color. George  Zimmerman, a neighborhood-watch captain, shot and killed Trayvon in a  gated community in Sanford, Fla., last month. He lumped Trayvon in with  those who "always get away" in a 911 call that night. 
You could blame Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law. Although "law" is  probably too strong a term for something that basically allows someone  to start a fight -- and finish it. It's that "law" that might keep  Zimmerman out of prison. The fact that Zimmerman hasn't yet been  arrested suggests that some Florida law enforcement officials agree with  the idea that a black man walking down your street is a reason to  defend yourself. 
After days of protests to call attention to Trayvon's fatal shooting,  the federal government announced it is looking at the incident as a  possible hate crime and Florida is convening a grand jury to look into  the circumstances. 
Pennsylvania has no "Stand Your Ground" law. But in 2006, the Trib  reported that Allegheny County had the highest number of legal  concealed-weapon permits in Pennsylvania -- just in case you think what  happened in Florida could never happen here. 
But at the heart of this crime (arrest or no) is racism. 
Mostly, my approach to racism has been this: If you have a problem  with me being black, it's your problem, not mine. It turns out I've been  wrong. It is my problem, and the problem of my brother, and my father and my son and my uncles. 
It's not the buffoonery of the Ku Klux Klan that's the most dangerous  form of racism. It's the quiet kind that tells a man with a gun that a  black male walking down the street in a hoodie is a threat to him. You  can turn out against a KKK rally to show distaste, but what can be done  about a man who views an unarmed black teen talking on his cell phone as  suspicious? 
Nothing, that's what. There will be more protests in the coming  weeks, and Zimmerman might even end up going to prison one day. But you  can't change a heart. 
I love my brother. Yet if he had been walking down that Sanford  street under the same circumstances, he would have been shot down like  the animal he isn't. 
And there's nothing I can do to help or protect the black men in my  life, except to write a column about TrayvonMartin and hope it makes at  least one person realize there is a human under that hoodie. 
