Stan Allen, a Westside Neighborhood Watch volunteer in Daytona Beach, saw a house on Oakwood Drive that seemed problematic. He saw needles and other trash in the yard, "things that looked wrong."
He did what neighborhood watch volunteers are supposed to do. He called police and told them what he saw.
The tip led to the arrest of Lynell Tucker, a man wanted for murder in Delaware. 
Nearly a month after a neighborhood watch volunteer told police he shot and killed teenager TrayvonMartin in Sanford as an act of self-defense, those involved in some 200 watch groups in Volusia and Flagler counties are revisiting their role in the criminal justice system. They are additional eyes and ears for law enforcement, nothing more.
And they say the actions of the watchman, George Zimmerman, as heard on 9-1-1 tapes, are a good example of what not to do, and why not to do it.
He never should have made contact," said Allen, a 53-year-old husband and father. "He called police. They told him they were responding. That was all they needed for him to do."
Neighborhood watch groups vary on their level of training, their approach to patrols and the areas they are attempting to protect.
Allen, for instance, lives in an urban area. Lt. Jack Waples, public information officer for the DeLand police, lives in a rural area and -- along with his neighbors -- looks out for anything unusual at the homes and with the livestock nearby.
In addition to working in concert with less-structured neighborhood watch groups, the Volusia County Sheriff's Office has formally trained COP volunteers, people in the Citizens Observer Program who wear uniforms and drive sheriff's vehicles but don't carry weapons or make arrests. In Flagler County, some 40 groups mostly in the Palm Coast area have brought neighbors together and educated more people about crimes such as identity theft.
Neighborhood watch is a very valuable asset," Volusia Sheriff Ben Johnson said. "The vigilante thing . . . we've never had that kind of a problem here."
Some volunteers are in their 80s. Others are 19 or 20, said Tim Lamprey, the Volusia sheriff's COP coordinator.
All COPs go through a background check and a screening process, Lamprey said.
Sometimes, younger volunteers have ideas about becoming police officers and think joining the COPs might be a way to improve their chances.
They're called in, usually for a sit-down meeting that lasts 45 minutes," Lamprey said. "I explain to them: 'This is not law enforcement.' They can't get involved in investigations."
But not all neighborhood watch groups are as structured. All policing agencies can do with nonsanctioned groups is offer tips and suggestions.
The (Volusia) Sheriff's Office doesn't promote organized neighborhood watch patrols, and we discourage our neighborhood watch members from making investigative contacts," sheriff's spokesman Gary Davidson wrote in an email.
But the Sanford shooting has raised many questions in the public about who neighborhood watch members are.
We are not police wannabes," said Frank Heckman, organizer of the Beachside Neighborhood Watch group in Daytona Beach.
In the 25 years of the Beachside group, Heckman said he has had more than 2,000 volunteers, and only once has he removed a person for breaking the rules and carrying a gun.
The actions of Zimmerman on Feb. 26 are being discussed as a "good example of what can happen when you are doing something you aren't supposed to," Heckman said.
Bill Sylvia, who coordinates a neighborhood watch group on the southwest side of DeLand, said he was saddened by Martin's death.
The 17-year-old boy was returning to his father's Sanford home from a convenience store carrying only a bag of Skittles and a can of iced tea. Zimmerman is heard on 9-1-1 tapes describing the boy as "suspicious." When a dispatcher told Zimmerman police were on the way and he didn't need to follow Martin, Zimmerman continued anyway.
(Zimmerman) did everything he was not supposed to," Sylvia said. "It was a total lack of respect for law enforcement and you just don't do it."
Sylvia's group doesn't even do patrols, but has been effective in reducing crime.
The number of break-ins has gone from an average of 13 or 14 a week to one or two every four or five months, he said.
DeLand has changed a lot since Sylvia -- a U.S. Air Force retiree -- was born there in 1931.
People have moved from the front yard to the backyard for privacy," he said. "That allows anything and everything to go on up and down the street."
Starting the program has brought the neighborhood closer. People now know one another and look out for each other's properties, he said. The volunteers have met with DeLand police, he said, and established a better rapport, leading to faster response times.
DEVELOPMENTS
ATTORNEY DEFENDS ACTIONS: Craig Sonner, an attorney representing George Zimmerman, says he believes the state's stand-your-ground law applies to the case. He said Zimmerman has been unfairly portrayed as a racist and acted in self-defense when he shot TrayvonMartin in February.
CHIEF THREATENED: The Seminole County Sheriff's Office says John Carnduff Stewart of Melbourne Beach was charged after emailing Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee on Friday, saying Lee and his family should be killed.
B-CU MARCHES FOR MARTIN: Students at Bethune-Cookman University sent out a campuswide notice on Friday of a March for TrayvonMartin on Monday at 4:30 p.m. from the university quad to First Baptist Church of Daytona Beach.
MORE INSIDE: My son and the Black Male Code, PAGE 7A
