NEW YORK - The father of a black teenager shot to death by a Hispanic neighborhood watch captain in Florida has told hundreds of people marching in New York City the teen "did not deserve to die."
Demonstrators chanted "we want arrests" during Wednesday night's Million Hoodie March in Manhattan's Union Square.
Seventeen-year-old TrayvonMartin was fatally shot Feb. 26 while returning to a gated community in Sanford, Fla., after buying candy at a convenience store. 
The teenager was unarmed and was wearing a hoodie.
Neighborhood watch captain George Zimmerman hasn't been charged in the shooting. He has said he shot the unarmed teen in self-defense.
The U.S. Department of Justice has opened a civil rights probe into the shooting.
The teenager's father, Tracy Martin, told the marchers the family won't stop until it gets "justice."
"I feel very honored that New York would do a rally in my son's honor," Martin told The Associated Press on Wednesday, hours before what was being called the Million Hoodie March was to take place.
"It means a lot to me and my family knowing that people across the country, across the world, are coming together to get justice for Trayvon."
The march splintered into various groups, with some demonstrators heading to Times Square for an impromptu rally and dozens of others making their way to downtown Manhattan. At times, it appeared the march had become indistinguishable from an Occupy event, with some protesters climbing atop the Wall Street bull sculpture.
Police said Zimmerman is white; his family says he is Hispanic.
The case has ignited a furor against the police department of the Orlando suburb of 53,500 people, prompting rallies and a protest in Gov. Rick Scott's office Tuesday.
The Justice Department's Civil Rights Division said it is sending its community relations service this week to Sanford to "address tension in the community."
Earlier in the week, the federal agency opened a civil rights probe into the shooting, and in Florida, Seminole County State Attorney Norm Wolfinger said a grand jury will meet April 10 to consider evidence in the case.
Martin said he and his son's mother, Sybrina Fulton, found out about the march after arriving in New York City, where they have done some interviews about the situation.
They got in touch with the organizers to say they would come and speak to the attendees.
The timing of Martin's parents being in the city when the march is happening is "incredible," said Daniel Maree, one of the organizers. He heard about the case earlier this week, he said.
In recent days, information surrounding the teen's death has been coming out, including 911 calls, and on Tuesday, an account from his family's lawyer of a conversation he had with his girlfriend in the moments before his death was released.
-The Associated Press
Asked how he was holding up as all this information comes out, Tracy Martin said he was trying to stay strong.
"I don't feel this is the time to break down, even though it's a very troubling time in my life," he said. "I've told myself, when I get justice for Trayvon, then I'll have my time to break down."
AP photo
Demonstrators pray during the Million Hoodie March in Union Square Wednesday in New York. The march was in memory of TrayvonMartin, a black teenager shot to death by a Hispanic neighborhood watch captain in Florida. The teenager was unarmed and was wearing a hoodie.
-The Associated Press
