It began as a small-town shooting that inflamed first a family, then a community, then a country and now the world. In President Obama's first public acknowledgment of the uproar over the death of a black teenager in Florida, he said yesterday: "When I think about this boy, I think about my own kids."
In a powerful endorsement of the growing unease over the killing of TrayvonMartin, the President backed state and federal inquiries and offered solemn reflection. 
"If I had a son, he would look like Trayvon," he said. "We are going to get to the bottom of exactly what happened ... every parent in America should be able to understand why it is absolutely imperative that we investigate every aspect of this."
Nearly four weeks have passed since Trayvon, 17, set off on an errand from his father's home in a middle-class gated community in Sanford and got shot dead on his way back.
The gunman was George Zimmerman, 28, the Neighbourhood Watch captain who once took a college course in criminal justice, had a habit of prowling about with a gun in his waistband, and rang police minutes before the shooting to report "a real suspicious guy".
He had said: "This guy looks like he's up to no good or he's on drugs or something ... he's got something in his hands." He said he was pursuing the teenager. Trayvon, meanwhile, was on his mobile phone, telling his girlfriend of a strange man following him. Witnesses reported the two fighting and that Trayvon was shot dead. The "something" in his hands was a bag of Skittles sweets and a can of iced tea that he had been to buy for his little brother.
Trayvon was black. Mr Zimmerman is a light-skinned half-Hispanic, considered by many as white. He told Sanford police that Trayvon, who was unarmed, attacked him and that he exercised his right under Florida's Stand Your Ground law to shoot in selfdefence - an argument they accepted and let him go. However, in the background of 911 emergency calls made by other neighbours that night, it is Trayvon who is heard bellowing: "Help."
Sanford is normally an uneventful community in terms of world news. It is 30 miles from the tourist sprawl of Orlando and Disney World and has a picturesque lakefront, historic centre, antiques shops and a thriving arts scene. Now it is a Deep South town on the march, stirred by the same racial outrage that Dr Martin Luther King fought to correct more than half a century ago. Ten thousand people rallied in Fort Mellon Park on Thursday night, demanding Mr Zimmerman's arrest and an end to what has long been perceived by some as racism by local police. Many people brought children clutching Skittles and cans of iced tea. "Am I next?" read a placard held by one black teenager.
Hundreds of people pressed in on Martin Luther King III, son of the founder of the civil rights movement, as he tried to ease his way through the crowd after making a speech.
"I'm encouraged that people would rally around injustice," he told The Times. "I don't think my father would have been discouraged by what happened, he would have been encouraged by the reaction. We are the kind of nation that he wanted to see, with faith and justice and equality for all, but sadly we are not there yet."
Trayvon's parents quoted from the Bible and thanked the public for their support. "I stand before you not knowing how I am walking today, because my heart is hurting for my son," Sybrina Fulton, Trayvon's mother, said.
The Rev Al Sharpton, patriarch of the civil rights movement, veered between rhetoric and humour as he led the rally, at one point telling the dignitaries around him to give Ms Fulton more space. He appealed for people to write cheques to help support the family. "That's T-H-O-U-S-A-N-D," he spelt to the crowd. This, he said, was about every child in America, not just Trayvon, a sentiment echoed by many of those present.
Jim Bronzo, 53, who is white, had a sign that read: "Hey Sanford police. Shame, shame." He said: "This town is full of the old boys' network, white cops, old southern boys. It's sad and it's an embarrassment in front of the whole world. These people have been oppressed by a corrupt police force for years. Everybody should be out here, every colour, every man, woman and child."
Bill Lee, the Sanford police chief, has stepped aside "temporarily" to let passions cool. Mr Sharpton said that Mr Zimmerman should be "in jail with his hands cuffed" and added: "Hey, there's a little fellow down the road he'd have shot too. Mickey Mouse - black, big ears, looks suspicious. Just lucky he doesn't have a hoodie on."
