With Florida's "stand your ground" law being blamed for a Central Florida killing that has evoked national outrage, Gov. Rick Scott says he will review the law.
He should do what we advised Gov. Jeb Bush to do six years ago. With the then-new law sparking controversy and fear, we urged him to appoint a task force of law enforcement officials and knowledgeable civilians to review the law's impact and recommend revisions, if necessary.
We vigorously support citizens' right to bear arms and defend themselves. We know gun-control zealots will use any incident to limit access to firearms, and also that many gun advocates don't lose sleep over a legal shooting that could have easily been avoided. When state law appears to encourage armed conflict and handcuff police investigations, something is wrong. The law should be scrutinized dispassionately without the rants and exaggerations that generally accompany gun-control debates. 
State gun policy should be based on the Constitution and the realities of human nature, not political passions.
Last month a 28-year-old volunteer with a Sanford neighborhood watch killed an unarmed teenager who was walking from a convenience store. George Zimmerman had called 911 to report a suspicious person. Despite being told to wait for police, he pursued 17-year-old Trayvon Martin and, in the resulting confrontation, shot him to death.
Sanford police made no arrest because Zimmerman, who had a concealed-weapon permit, said he was defending himself. Martin was talking to a girl on his cellphone immediately before he was shot, and she heard him ask, "Why are you following me?" This raises questions about the necessity of any confrontation.
Martin, who had no police record and was visiting the nearby house of his father's girlfriend, was black. Al Sharpton and other activists claim racism was a factor.
We don't know exactly what happened that night, and neither do Sharpton or the others jumping to conclusions. But the appearances are troubling. At the least, this seems a tragically avoidable death.
The public attention has generated action, if belatedly. A grand jury will investigate. The Justice Department and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement also are involved.
Regardless of the facts that might emerge in this case, stand your ground should be revisited.
Police and prosecutors report the law is commonly used by individuals in conflicts that escalate to gunfire and not by people who have been attacked by criminals. The shooter need only claim he felt threatened, and prosecution becomes difficult.
The law expanded the "castle doctrine" that allows people to use deadly force in their homes when threatened. Stand your ground extended that right to public settings, which we believe is appropriate. But it did not require the shooter to first attempt to retreat or otherwise avoid the conflict before shooting. Defenders of the law insist it does not allow someone to start a confrontation, but when there are no witnesses, it's impossible to know who confronted whom.
The number of justifiable homicides has tripled since the law was adopted. CNN reports that in the five years before "stand your ground" became law, Florida averaged 12 justifiable homicides a year. In the six years since, FDLE reports the average is 33.
The rising number of justifiable shootings was easy to anticipate. We said six years ago that the law gives shooters too much wiggle room without sufficient accountability.
Law enforcement officers say the burden now is much higher to bring charges in questionable killings.
Citizens should be able to defend themselves. But in a society that values life, lethal action should be a last resort.
Stand your ground has allowed that standard to slip. State leaders should see the issue involves not only gun rights, but respect for life as well.
It seems prudent to us to require gun owners to take reasonable -- not extraordinary -- steps to avoid a confrontation. An objective review, without the distracting gun-control histrionics, would give Scott and lawmakers solid evidence to determine how the law needs to be revised.
Copyright  2012, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com
