Man's death still under investigation
 ST. JOSEPH, MICH. - Police have identified the body of a man found dead Sunday in a field east of St. Joseph as 21-year-old Tyler James Carr of Watervliet, Mich., according to a WSBT report. 
 Police found Carr dead of an apparent head injury about 9:20 a.m. in the 2500 block of Fairview Road, about two miles east of the St. Joseph Valley Parkway, the report states.
 A large party occurred in the field Saturday night, police told the TV station.
 An autopsy will be performed, and toxicology tests conducted, in the coming days and weeks to determine the official cause of death, the station reports.
CRIME & COURTS
 2 rob restaurant at gunpoint
 SOUTH BEND - Two men robbed Garden Wok, 919 N. Bendix Drive, at gunpoint late Friday, according to a police report.
 The men entered the restaurant about 9:07 p.m., ordered the employees and patrons to the ground, and demanded money from the cash register, the report states.
 They then fled with an unknown amount of cash.
 No arrests have been made.
 Mother arrested, child to CPS
 BUCHANAN - Police say they arrested a woman and placed her 15-month-old child with Child Protective Services after police on Saturday found evidence of methamphetamine being made in their home on Able Road.
 The Berrien County Sheriff's Department and Buchanan City Police had come to the home to arrest the woman, age 37, on a misdemeanor warrant at about 2 a.m., county police report. That's when they noticed the makings of meth.
 The child was first taken to Lakeland Hospital for a medical exam before given to CPS, police reported. The mother was lodged in the Berrien County Jail. Another woman was in the home at the time. She was released with no charges.
EVENT
 March to honor Florida teen
 SOUTH BEND - IUSB's Civil Rights Heritage Center is organizing a "1,000,000 Hoodie March" on Thursday in the wake of the shooting death in Florida of TrayvonMartin.
 The black 17-year-old was shot Feb. 26 by a Neighborhood Watch volunteer whose parents are white and Hispanic.
 The march, where participants are asked to wear hoodies in honor of Trayvon, aims to "affirm that every person in this community is valuable."
 "This is a peaceful and respectful gathering," according to the event's website, www.thenatatorium.org/ rally.html.
 Youths can come from 3 to 5 p.m. and make posters for the rally at the Heritage Center, a program of Indiana University South Bend at 1040 W. Washington St.
 The march will depart from the center at 5:30 p.m. and proceed to the Martin Luther King Center, 1522 W. Linden Ave. That will be followed by a "rally for justice" from 6 to 7 p.m.
 Also, the shooting and social justice will be discussed at 4 p.m. Tuesday on radio station WUBS (89.7 FM) by host Val Maxwell and sev-eral guests including Heritage Center representatives, prominent attorneys and other local leaders.
