ATLANTA - Her sons were 12 and 8 when Marlyn Tillman realized it was time to have the talk.
Buying a water gun was perfectly acceptable for their white friends only. As young African-American men, she told them, owning a water gun could make them an easy target for police.
"I could no longer keep them in the dark," Tillman said. "I had to break it to them that the world sees them differently." 
According to a 2010 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study, homicide was the leading cause of death for black males age 12-19.
In the weeks since young Tray-von Martin was gunned down in a gated community in Sanford, Fla., those truths have weighed heavily on black parents.
Tillman, a community activist and empty nester, lives in a middle-class, predominately white, suburban Atlanta neighborhood.
Ruben Brown, 48, lives with his wife and son in Atlanta. But like Tillman, he knows their middle-class status in no way equals safety when it comes to his son.
Although worries about the safety of adolescents are not the province of just black families or parents of boys, Tillman, Brown and other parents say raising black boys is perhaps the most stressful aspect of parenting because they know they're dealing with a society that is fearful and hostile toward them.
At 14, Brown said his son is at that critical age when he's always worried about his safety because of profiling.
"I don't want to scare him or have him paint people with a broad brush, but, historically, we black males have been stigmatized as the purveyors of crime and wherever we are, we're suspect," Brown said.
Black parents who don't make that fact clear, he and others said, do it at their and their male children's own peril.
"Any African-American parent not having that conversation is being irresponsible," Brown said.
Morehouse College associate professor Bryant Marks agreed, saying parents need to be vigilant in raising their boys, make them aware of how they are perceived in this country and give them the skills they need to survive.
"Have the conversation about the police, tell them what to do when they are on foot or in a car," he said. "That conversation needs to happen. It acknowledges the bias out there, but let them know that they can succeed in spite of all of that."
Regardless of a family's class or education, the challenge of bringing young black males safely to adulthood must be tremendous, said Richard Cohen, president of the Southern Poverty Law Center.
"On the one hand, should they tell children to run when they are faced with suspicious and possibly dangerous circumstances such as a car following them, or should they stand still for fear that their running will be interpreted as some sort of evidence of guilt," he said.
"It's a horrible, horrible Catch 22 for any parent or child."
As far as Cohen is concerned, the moral of the tragedy in Sanford is "walking while black - merely being black - still seems to be a crime in this country."
Based on news reports, he said, George Zimmerman appears to have concluded that TrayvonMartin was "suspicious" based on nothing more than his race and the fact that Trayvon was walking in Zimmerman's neighborhood.
"Sadly, such assumptions are made about black youth every day," Cohen said.
