MIAMI: Lawyers for the family of Trayvon Martin and the Florida neighbourhood watch captain who shot the unarmed teenager dead have joined the national chorus of voices calling for justice in the case. 
As demonstrators took to the streets in major cities such as Washington and Chicago to voice outrage over Martin's death and the local police investigation of it, a lawyer for his family told the National Association of Black Journalists that federal and local officials had assured them the case was a priority.
Meanwhile, a lawyer representing the neighbourhood watch captain, George Zimmerman, 28, broadly defended his client and said evidence would show that Florida's controversial ``stand your ground'' law had been applied correctly.
Mr Zimmerman has not been charged over the February 26 shooting that has ignited racial tensions and raised questions about the Sanford police's handling of the case.
Martin, 17, was black, and Mr Zimmerman's father is white and his mother is Hispanic.
Martin was walking to a friend's home when Mr Zimmerman started following him, telling police dispatchers he looked suspicious. The two got into a fight in the gated community and Mr Zimmerman pulled out his gun.
``Is George a racist? The answer is no, absolutely not. He's not a racist,'' lawyer Craig Sonner said about his client. ``The incident that transpired is not racially motivated or a hate crime in any way. It was self-defence.''
Mr Sonner declined to say what transpired between Mr Zimmerman and Martin but said the case fell under Florida's ``stand your ground'' law, which allows people to ``meet force with force'' if attacked. ``I believe we have a good case,'' he said.
The US Justice Department has opened a civil rights investigation into the shooting and a grand jury will meet on April 10 to consider evidence.
President Barack Obama called the shooting a tragedy and said: ``When I think about this boy, I think about my own kids.''
Daryl Parks, the Martin family lawyer, said federal and local officials met with the teen's family and gave them ``a strong sense that (the Department of) Justice was very committed'' to investigating the case.
Mr Parks also said the Florida Department of Law Enforcement had told the family's legal team they knew where Mr Zimmerman was but it was unclear whether they were offering protection to him. He has been in hiding after he received death threats. Members of the New Black Panther Party are offering a $10,000 reward for his ``capture''.
