As a black man in America, Shaka Berry, 38,  says he has been stopped by police for no apparent reason. He says he is desensitized to news about the deaths of black men.
But when Berry, a telecommunications salesman who lives in Washington, D.C., learned details of the TrayvonMartin case, he said he was moved to tears. He was disturbed about news reports that Trayvon, 17, of Sanford, Fla., was fatally shot Feb. 26 while returning from a run to 7-Eleven for iced tea and Skittles.
Berry was disheartened that shooter George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer described as white by police, had not been arrested. So Berry expressed himself like many others on Facebook: He posted a photo of himself in a hooded sweatshirt -- what Trayvon was wearing when he died. 
The photo "was my little way to express outrage at what happened to the kid," Berry said.
Berry's visual statement is  part of a social media trend: Black Americans and, to a smaller extent, Hispanic Americans are using such media in larger numbers than Americans overall, experts say. Word of the TrayvonMartin case has gone viral  as social media users, including many black Americans, publicize rallies and  urge contacts to sign petitions.
Black and Hispanic Americans are more likely to use their cellphones as their sole way of connecting to the Internet, said Aaron Smith, senior research specialist with the Pew Internet & American Life Project. This tends to translate into wider social media use, Smith said.
Among cellphone users, 39% of black, non-Hispanic Americans and 35% of Hispanic Americans access social networking sites compared with 24% of white, non-Hispanic Americans, according to a 2011 Pew survey of 2,277 adults.
Younger black Americans grew up communicating by text and instant message, and social media interaction feels natural, said Michael Street, a New York-based social media strategist. This generation tends to communicate  by sharing photos and information as close to real time as possible, he said.
"Sites like BlackPlanet.com and MySpace helped to train and introduce this audience to social media," Street said. "Now that they have the knowledge, they have taken it and run with it."
Social media have evolved as an outlet for people who feel ignored, said Rashad Robinson, executive director of ColorOfChange.org, a  New York-based organization that plans events focused on issues involving black Americans.
"We're hearing stories of mothers telling   of   their fear for their children in the criminal justice system," Robinson said. "We're hearing from fathers telling us about 'the talk' that they have with their young sons or nephews" about carrying themselves passively so they can avoid trouble with police.
The trend is probably an extension of what black Americans have been doing for centuries -- communicating through word-of-mouth, said William Winters, senior campaigner for Change.org, where a petition related to the TrayvonMartin case has generated the most signatures of any petition on its site.
"I think part of it has to do with the oral storytelling traditions in black communities," Winters said. "What is new about it is the speed at which the sharing of information can happen."
Many seem to innately recognize the power of social media in reaching  black Americans.
Syndicated radio talk show host Michael Baisden, who is black,  urged his Facebook followers to post photos of themselves in hoodies.
Baisden, host of The Michael Baisden Show, told USA TODAY that he likes interacting via social media because "it's just me and them and so they're getting their information."
He and others credit social media with publicizing other cases with racial implications, including that of Troy Davis, the Georgia man executed Sept. 21 for a murder that supporters  believe he didn't commit, and the Jena Six, six black teens in Jena, La., convicted in December 2006 of beating a white student, though critics felt the punishment was harsh.
Marian Wright Edelman, founder  of the Washington-based Children's Defense Fund, sent a staffer out to buy a hoodie so she could post a photo of herself wearing one.
"Mrs. Edelman really felt that she wanted to stand with all the young people who were standing up for justice for TrayvonMartin," said spokeswoman Patti Hassler.
Former Michigan governor Jennifer Granholm, host of The War Room with Jennifer Granholm on Current TV, also posed for a hoodie photo. In an e-mail to USA TODAY, Granholm wrote, "The hoodie is a way of expressing support for the Martin family, and for all the sons of African-American families who bear the heavy burden of other people's negative assumptions." 
