A 16-year-old-boy from Hayward was shot and killed Friday in East Oakland.
The very next day, a 31-year-old man was fatally shot in North Oakland.
You didn't know? I'm not surprised. The killings got minuscule news coverage.
On Monday, Oakland police had still not released the victims' names. 
All we know officially is they were black males, and now they're dead. Oakland's 25th and 26th homicides in 2012.
Yet you'd be hard-pressed to find anyone -- unless they've been in a cave for the last month -- who hasn't heard about TrayvonMartin.
The killing of the 17-year-old African-American boy in Sanford, Fla., has sparked national outrage.
As well it should.
Trayvon's apparent "crime" was to be a black male and wearing a hoodie in a neighborhood where someone thought he didn't belong. That was enough to convince a neighbor of his father's fiancee that the boy, who was "armed" with a box of Skittles and an iced tea, was up to no good. George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch leader, first called 911 to report a "suspicious" individual walking through the neighborhood. He followed Martin -- despite instructions from the 911 operator that "we don't need you to do that."
Zimmerman, who has a white father and Hispanic mother, shot the boy in the chest. He claims to have acted in self-defense, though he pursued the unarmed boy. The neighborhood watch volunteer told police that while he was trying to follow Martin, the teen struck him and slammed his head on the sidewalk.
An altercation that never would have occurred if Zimmerman hadn't taken it upon himself to follow the teen.
A month later, Zimmerman has not been charged with a crime.
There have been rallies all over the country demanding that Zimmerman be prosecuted.
It has become the national rage to wear hooded sweatshirts as a symbol of protest. This past "hoodie Sunday," congregants in churches across the Bay Area and the country wore them. People ate Skittles and drank iced tea, the drink Martin was carrying.
We should all be sickened by the fact that a boy could be pursued because of racial profiling.
Florida authorities must not be allowed to think they can brush the shooting under the rug.
Yet why isn't there anything even remotely approaching this level of concern over the steady slaughter of black men -- usually by other black men -- in our own streets?
Why do people get upset and demand justice only when the victim is black and the perpetrator is of another race and/or connected to law enforcement?
Then, it's a media feeding frenzy.
"Why not the same level of outrage?" emailed one reader. "A life is a life, a loss is a loss and when you're dead, you're dead."
It's a lot easier to get worked up about an issue in some far-off place. You don't have to actually do anything to help solve the problem. Just join the hoodie protest.
Brenda Grisham is frustrated by the saturation coverage of the Florida case. Her son Christopher LaVell Jones, 17, was shot and killed in front of her East Oakland home Dec. 31, 2010. Grisham witnessed the attack.
No one has been charged in the slaying of the talented musician, who was headed to Laney College.
Grisham started the Christopher LaVell Jones Foundation, which awards a scholarship in her son's memory.
She got a call asking if the foundation was planning a TrayvonMartin protest.
"I said that I was praying for the family," Grisham said. "But I am more concerned about the 16-year-old who lost his life here in Oakland and that we haven't even heard about."
Grisham often receives calls and Facebook messages from people in the East Bay who have lost family members to violence.
Many are angry and frustrated with the criminal justice system. Even when assailants are known to authorities, witnesses refuse to provide testimony.
The killings of 22-month-old Hiram Lawrence and Gabriel Martinez Jr., 5, remain unsolved.
Who will call for justice for these families?
"All these people are jumping on the bandwagon for the people in Florida," Grisham said. "We have problems at home."
Tammerlin Drummond is a columnist for the Bay Area News Group. Her column runs Tuesday and Sunday. Reach her attdrummond@bayareanewsgroup.com or follow her atTwitter.com .
