LAWYERS WEIGH IN: Doubts over applicability of 'Stand Your Ground' law
SARASOTA
Local attorneys who have successfully defended accused murderers using Florida's controversial "Stand Your Ground" law say it is a good tactic for law-abiding citizens who are threatened, but would be misapplied in the TrayvonMartin case.
Martin, 17, an unarmed black teenager, was killed Feb. 26 in a gated town house community in Sanford when he was shot by a crime watch volunteer as he walked home from a convenience store. 
George Zimmerman, 28, reported a suspicious person to 911 and then followed Martin. Zimmerman, described as white Hispanic, has not been arrested. He told police he fired on TrayvonMartin in self-defense when the teenager attacked him.
Bradenton attorney Charlie Britt and Eric Reisinger of Sarasota have successfully defended clients using the "Stand Your Ground" defense, and both were surprised that Martin's accused shooter has not yet been charged.
In 2010, Britt had second-degree murder charges against his client, Edwin Vargas-Lopez, dropped after filing a "Stand Your Ground" immunity motion -- the first use of the 2005 statute in Manatee County.
Vargas-Lopez had been drinking and dancing at a club on Cortez Road. After he danced with a waitress, someone became jealous and struck him in the head. Vargas-Lopez struggled to his truck and shut the door, but several people punched him and tried to pull him out of the window, including 32-year-old Fernando Castulo Morales.
Vargas-Lopez grabbed a knife and swung with the weapon, striking Morales in the chest and killing him.
Britt argued his client was in fear for his life, and that he had a right to protect himself; the judge agreed. "It worked out well for Edwin," Britt said.
Florida law allows a person who is "not engaged in any unlawful activity" to "meet force with force," including the use of deadly force. It does not require a person to retreat if they are in a public place, a requirement of previous state laws, and therefore allows them to "stand their ground."
"It's a good law, and it should be the law," said Britt, a former law enforcement officer. "If you're in a life-and-death situation, sometimes you have the opportunity to retreat, sometimes you don't. The law shouldn't require you to run if it would compromise your life."
Britt has another case pending in which his client may claim a defense under "Stand Your Ground." The man fired several shots into the air to stop a crowd of people who were advancing on him, including some whom he believed were armed. No one was injured, but Britt's client was charged with unlawful discharge of a firearm. These charges, too, will likely be dismissed, Britt said.
"I believe that in a public place, you should be able to use deadly force," Britt said. "The cops can use it. Why can't I?"
In 2010, Sarasota's Reisinger had second-degree murder charges against his client, Alphonse Gallo, dropped due to this type of defense, the first time the law was used in Sarasota County.
In May 2010, Gallo was confronted by three people he thought were going to rob him outside a Newtown bar, including Patrick Barbour, whom Gallo fought with earlier that evening. Gallo testified later that Barbour pulled out a firearm.
Gallo, who had a concealed weapon permit, produced his pistol and a firefight ensued. More than two dozen rounds were exchanged between Gallo, Barbour and Barbour's friends.
When it was over, Barbour had been hit three times and later died. Reisinger filed a "Stand Your Ground" immunity motion.
"The victim threatened to shoot my client. My client defended himself. The judge granted the motion for immunity," Reisinger said. "For law-abiding citizens who aren't causing trouble, it's a good law. People have a right to defend themselves."
In the shooting of TrayvonMartin, Reisinger said he doesn't think the law applies. "By all accounts, he instigated the altercation."
Britt also said it appears as though the accused shooter took the fight to Martin.
"We don't know what happened," Britt said. "He said the kid came at him. Who's going to dispute it? The kid's dead."
Across the country, more states are adopting similar statutes after recent decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court clarified a person's right to self-defense, said Delaware attorney John Sigler, past president of the National Rifle Association.
Known as "castle doctrines," the laws codify people's right to defend themselves in their home or "castle." Florida had that law in place for years before enacting "Stand Your Ground."
"Many states required people to retreat if confronted in their own home. That didn't make sense and the laws were changed," Sigler said. "The next logical step is why should people be required to retreat anywhere, if they are there legally."
This doctrine, however, may not apply in the shooting of TrayvonMartin.
