WASHINGTON: President Barack Obama yesterday said the US needed to do some soul searching after the killing of an unarmed black teenager. "If I had a son he would look like Trayvon," Obama told reporters, calling the death of TrayvonMartin, 17, a "tragedy". Thousands rallied in the Florida town of Sanford where Martin was shot dead by volunteer neighbourhood watch guard George Zimmerman.
NEW DELHI: Twelve people have died from swine flu in India since the beginning of March and nearly 110 others have been infected, India's health ministry said. The victims were from the western states of Maharashtra and Rajasthan as well as southern Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. More than 500 died from swine flu in India and more than 14 000 people tested positive in 2009. 
MONROVIA: Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, a Nobel Peace Laureate, yesterday defended her country's stand on gay rights. Sirleaf said she would not sign any law whatsoever relating to homosexuality. "We've got certain traditional values in our society that we would like to preserve," she says. Many traditional African countries consider homosexuality "un-African".
MOSCOW: Russia's growing drug addiction problem can be controlled quickly and efficiently by imprisoning addicts, its Federal Narcotics Control Service chief said yesterday. The maximum penalty - about R115 - was not enough to deter addicts, director Viktor Ivanov said. "I don't think that it should be a terrifying, cruel penalty. They could be sent to prison for six months or a year," he said.
BRUSSELS: The EU banned Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's wife Asma from visiting the EU or shopping with European companies. The sanctions are notable for including London-born Asma, whose luxury shopping habit was laid bare in hacked e-mails. Once admired, she has turned into a hate figure for many Syrians, standing by her husband as he conducts a bloody crackdown.
TAIPEI: An MP's suggestion that Taiwan men were "abandoning" local women for foreign brides sparked a protest by advocacy groups yesterday. MP Chang Show-foong called on the government to consider subsidies for Taiwan's "leftover women". Groups representing women and immigrants that took part in the protest at the legislature demanded an apology from Chang.
US school outlaws hugging
ABERDEEN TOWNSHIP, New Jersey: More than 900 students at a New Jersey middle school have been told not to hug. The district says Matawan-Aberdeen Middle School principal Tyler Blackmore made an announcement that pupils were in a "no hugging school" following some "incidents of unsuitable physical interactions". Blackmore said students who hug will not be suspended.
BRUSSELS: The EU slapped fresh sanctions on Belarus yesterday to persuade President Alexander Lukashenko's authoritarian regime to free all political prisoners. EU foreign ministers agreed to freeze the assets of 29 companies, block accounts and ban EU travel for 12 individuals. Diplomats said the individuals would include nine police and judicial officials and three businessmen.
LONDON: British MPs are calling for the tower housing Big Ben - the beloved London bell that chimes the quarter hour - to be renamed in honour of Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee. MPs have signed a motion urging the House of Commons Commission to consider renaming the east tower at the Palace of Westminster as the Elizabeth Tower to recognise the queen's 60 years of service.
ANKARA: A man threw three petrol bombs at the Iranian embassy in Ankara yesterday, but caused no damage or casualties, Turkish news agencies said. The man, described as an Iranian in his 60s, approached the embassy building in Kavaklidere in the morning and threw three petrol bombs, two into the garden of the high-walled complex, and another one at the walls.
