March 26--STOCKTON -- What do you see when you see a black man walking down the street in a hoodie?
A proud Stockton entrepreneur  and married father of four? 
Or a suspicious figure on the prowl looking for someone to take advantage of?
Ansar Muhammad hopes to attack misconceptions on either side of the hoodie when he helps unite anti-violence advocates for the thousand hoodie march on Thursday.
"We're doing this to join the national outcry for justice for TrayvonMartin and to draw attention to the violence that's taking place in Stockton," Muhammad said.
That escalating local violence was punctuated last week by fatal shootings in which a suspect fired at an officer with a gun used in a homicide a few days earlier.
"It makes me feel for my children and makes me question the decision i made to come here," said Muhammad.
Marches calling for the prosecution of George Zimmerman, the shooter of unarmed Florida teen Trayvon , are tied to local violence in Muhammad's  mind.
He says there's an absence of accountability at the center of the shooting incidents.
Police did not initially charge Zimmerman for Martin's shooting because he claimed self-defense.
Since the February shooting, Zimmerman's own rambling 911call and his pursuit of the hoodie-clad Martin, who was only armed with iced tea and skittles, have heightened calls for his arrest.
Some 911 calls and witness accounts seem to suggest that Martin may have physically attacked the neighborhood watch captain who was following him, but many discount those details.
Adrian McCoy of Stockton is among those who believe Zimmerman was solely in the wrong.
"I just feel that something there needs to happen," said McCoy.
Muhammad believes what will happen on the streets of Stockton and Sacramento will start a new chapter in hope and responsibility.
"This city has been on every negative list...miserable city...murder city.  We want to show that good people have concern for the well- being of Stockton, "he said.
The marches will start at 4pm on Thursday.
Stockton's march steps off from Waterfront Plaza across from the movie theater.
Sacramento's will begin in William Land Park.
Advocates in the cities of Tracy and Modesto are also in the process of organizing joint marches.
The city of Seattle will also host a similar event at the same time.
___ (c)2012 KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) Visit KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) at www.fox40.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
