Protest and privilege make uneasy bedfellows. It's getting dark in Manhattan, thousands of young people in hoodies have taken to the streets, and brightly coloured sweets are crunching underfoot. Seventeen-year-old TrayvonMartin was carrying a bag of Skittles, a bottle of iced tea and no weapons when he was shot dead in Florida last month, and the police have still failed to punish his killer. At this march, called in protest at institutional violence against young black men in America, demonstrators toss Skittles over the pavement and carry iced tea.
For the poorest urban communities, police brutality and financial injustice have always been part of the equation - and it's just the same with the fightback. On the corner of Washington Square, you can hear them yelling the names of victims of police brutality, the name of TrayvonMartin, the name of Troy Davis, the name of Martin Luther King. 
The one name I conspicuously do not hear being chanted on this "million hoodie march" is that of Barack Obama. For these young people, the passive politics of hope are staggeringly insufficient. When savage injustice becomes part of the weave of daily life, it is hard to determine at what particular moment the heart says, "enough". It is hard to pinpoint how many bloodied young women, how many dead young men and how many police officers walking casually away it will take before the collective imagination of a community or a country decides that there has been one outrage too many.
We live, however, in interesting times, when what has been suffered in weary silence for years can become the occasion for a riot at the discharge of a single gun. As the army of hooded, angry people whoops and hollers and streams down Sixth Avenue, the expression on the faces of the white couples eating dinner in nearby restaurants is familiar to me. I saw the same mask of quiet panic flicker over the faces of friends and colleagues, peering out of their windows during last summer's riots in London, which were also catalysed by the fatal shooting of a young black man by police. It's an expression that says: who are these kids, and where did they come from? Have we always lived side by side with them and never noticed?
The answer is yes, and well-to-do-liberals might be advised to consider seriously how they will react, however progressive they feel themselves to be, the next time an enormous crowd of angry black teenagers in hoodies marches up the high street. Today, significantly, it is impossible to tell who has worn their everyday clothes to this march, and who has pulled on a hood and tracksuit in a show of solidarity. I spot university professors in hoods, homeless buskers in hoods, and one Hollywood actor in a hood - from a few feet away, they all look the same, a menacing mass with justice and vengeance on its mind.
Perhaps the North American protest movement is about to learn, to its credit, what the British youth uprisings failed at first to anticipate: that one cannot deal with issues of race and class simply by ignoring them.
While the killing of young black boys is rarely news in North America, when young white women were kettled and pepper-sprayed by the police during the first days of Occupy Wall Street their tear-smeared faces made headlines across the world.
The learning curve of white privilege is steep, especially for those who weren't aware that they had it. While outrage against systemic police brutality galvanised Occupy Wall Street and united disparate communities under its banner, many black activists are unhappy with what they see as the "co-opting" of TrayvonMartin's death. "They're trying to make out that it's the same thing, and it's really, really not," says 23-year-old Nike. As ranks of armed police march into the square, as the barricades go up and the batons come out, Lee, also 23, yells: "I guarantee you, the first people trampled and arrested will be people of colour. Like every time. I guarantee it."
