March 23--The failure to make an arrest in the shooting death of Miami-Dade teenager Trayvon Martin could be sending the wrong message to neighborhood watch groups, state legislators and South Florida residents say.
Martin, 17, of Miami Gardens, was followed and confronted by George Zimmerman, the head of a neighborhood watch group in Sanford, even though a police dispatcher told Zimmerman that he didn't need to pursue the teenager.
Sanford police haven't arrested Zimmerman, who argues the Feb. 26 shooting was self-defense. 
"It is letting people think, 'I could possibly use deadly force and get away with it,'" Sen. Chris Smith, D-Fort Lauderdale, said Thursday. "I think you will see an increase in armed neighborhood watches. That's a concern for the future."
Whether the killing sparks an increase in vigilante-style confrontations remains to be seen.
South Florida's law enforcement agencies tell their sanctioned Citizens on Patrol volunteer programs, as well as local neighborhood watches: Report suspicious activity to 911. Don't play police officer. Don't pursue.
"They're told not to intervene, only to report suspicious activity," said Broward sheriff's spokeswoman Veda Coleman-Wright. "They're prohibited from carrying weapons."
The day of the Sanford shooting, Zimmerman called a police non-emergency line to report a person unknown to him as suspicious. Zimmerman can be heard pursuing Martin, even after dispatchers tell him not to. He describes Martin as a black male who looked like he was "up to no good."
It's unclear exactly what happened during the altercation, but Martin died from a gunshot wound to the chest.
Smith plans to spearhead a rewrite of Florida's Stand Your Ground law, which he says is too vague in allowing the use of deadly force in "self-defense" situations.
He said he doubts the controversy surrounding Martin's killing would deter overzealous residents from carrying weapons during patrols. Floridians are allowed to have firearms and conceal them if they have a permit, he said.
Getting criticized for shooting a teenager is "one thing," Smith said. "But not getting arrested and convicted because people think it's legal under the law? Oh God, I could just imagine what kind of message that sends out to the community."
Beryl Collins, 72, president of the Lauderhill Central Residents Association, said her neighborhood's watch program, established five years ago, is essentially a pact among residents to look after one another's property, complete with "neighborhood watch" signs added near roadways.
Collins said it would be reprehensible if any residents opted to conduct armed patrols. "It's a very bad idea," she said. "Because people like that are going to be trigger-happy."
She said neighbors' phone calls to 911 have lead to several home burglary arrests over the years.
"It can be done without a gun," she said.
Zimmerman's actions were against guidelines followed by countless volunteer programs across the United States, according to the National Sheriffs' Association, a nonprofit which officially launched the Neighborhood Watch Program in 1972.
In a recent statement, Aaron D. Kennard, the association's executive director, referred to Zimmerman as a "self-appointed neighborhood watchman" who "significantly contradicts the principles" of watch programs.
Kennard said the association had no record of Zimmerman's group registering as a neighborhood watch.
"The alleged participant ignored everything the Neighborhood Watch Program stands for, and it resulted in a young man losing his life," Kennard wrote.
___ (c)2012 the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) Visit the Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) at www.sun-sentinel.com Distributed by MCT Information Services
