It is essential that justice should be done and seen to be done in the case of TrayvonMartin, which has caused enormous and still growing international concern since the death of the black teenager in Florida last month. 
Trayvon (17) was shot dead in circumstances which will reverberate in Ireland and elsewhere as he visited his father, who was separated from his mother, in a gated housing development with private security arrangements.
An armed guard made an assumption that a black youth, who wore a hooded jacket and appeared to be carrying suspicious objects, represented some form of threat and, after a confrontation, fired the fatal bullets.
It swiftly emerged that Trayvon was a blameless individual who was fully entitled to be in the neighbourhood, had a bag of sweets and a can of iced tea in his hands and was attempting to shelter from a downpour of rain as he approached his father's home.
What has further pushed the story to the centre of the US political agenda is that the guard George Zimmerman (28) has yet to be arrested for questioning about a killing which took place four weeks ago.
To complicate what is already a massively sensitive debate, a law in Florida known as "stand your ground" can prevent criminal or civil prosecution when deadly force is used in self-defence.
However, it should be clear that this provision cannot reasonably be applied to Mr Zimmerman and without further delay he must be interviewed under caution about the circumstances surrounding the tragedy.
The intervention of President Barack Obama, who said that the shooting should cause US national soul-searching, was entirely legitimate, and he summed up his position in one striking phrase - "If I had a son, he would look like Trayvon."
On our side of the Atlantic, we are still considering killings with enormous ramifications which were carried out by republicans, loyalists and, on occasions, the forces of the state going back up to four decades and beyond.
The US has the opportunity to demonstrate that it can swiftly and effectively address such matters within its own jurisdiction and the attitude of the authorities towards the death of TrayvonMartin will be closely scrutinised.
