The TrayvonMartin tragedy is shining a national spotlight on "stand your ground" laws in at least 21 states.
The laws -- in places such as Texas, Idaho and Alaska -- allow everyday citizens to use deadly force against someone else if they fear for their life. They also say people do not have to retreat if threatened or attacked. 
George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watchman in Sanford, Fla., fatally shot Trayvon as the 17-year-old was walking to his father's home. Zimmerman told police he was attacked by Trayvon and acted in self-defense. He has not been arrested or charged.
The case has triggered  public outcry to change or repeal Florida's "stand your ground" law.
"You want to know how you can kill somebody legally in Florida?" said Arthur Hayhoe of the Florida Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. "Make sure you have no witnesses, hunt the person down and then say you feared for your life."
Hayhoe said he has about a dozen cases on his desk now similar to Trayvon's case.
Florida's "stand your ground" law emerged after a man shot and killed a burglar who officials say was trying to break into the man's RV after Hurricane Ivan in 2005. The man waited months before learning he would not be charged with murder.
The case inspired then-Florida state senator Durell Peaden, a Republican, to introduce a bill dealing with similar situations. State Rep. Dennis Baxley, the bill's House sponsor, told USA TODAY the law empowers people to defend themselves and should not be challenged in the wake of this case.
"Every time you have an adverse incident, immediately the anti-gun faction will say this law is the problem," said Baxley, a Republican, adding that violent crime in Florida has dropped since its implementation.
"The perpetrators know everyone has the right to defend themselves.  I think that has been a strong deterrent," Baxley said.
Since the law was enacted in 2005, the number of justifiable homicides in Florida has skyrocketed, said state Sen. Oscar Braynon, a Democrat who represents the area in Miami where Trayvon lived with his mother.
Nationally, justifiable homicides  have been slowly rising since 2005. The number in 2010, the last full year measured by the FBI, was 278.
Baxley thinks the jump  shows the law is working. "The perpetrator suffered instead of the person they were victimizing," he said. "That's what those numbers mean."
Some gun-control advocates say the numbers underscore an increasingly aggressive mentality on the streets, fueled in part by state laws such as Florida's.
"It's part of this increasing effort to push more guns into more public places," said Daniel Vice of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence.
Braynon and Florida Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican, have said they support a review of the law.
"It's been great for defense lawyers," said Richard Rosenbaum, a  Fort Lauderdale attorney. "It has helped a lot of people get off on self-defense that would have been found guilty before 2005." 
