SANFORD, FLA.-Members of the New Black Panther Party are offering a $10,000 (U.S.) reward for the "capture" of George Zimmerman, leader Mikhail Muhammad announced Saturday during a rally in a day of nationwide protests against the slaying of a Florida teenager. 
When asked whether he was inciting violence to get vigilante justice for slain teen TrayvonMartin, Muhammad replied: "An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth."
The bounty announcement came moments after members of the group called for the mobilization of 5,000 black men to capture George Zimmerman, the neighbourhood watch volunteer in a gated community considered mostly white, who shot and killed 17-year-old TrayvonMartin on Feb. 26.
Zimmerman remains free and uncharged over the incident.
Since then, the shooting in Sanford, a town just north of Orlando, has galvanized America.
Muhammad said members of his group would search for Zimmerman themselves in Maitland and Jacksonville - where the 28-year-old worked before the shooting, employees there told the Orlando Sentinel. But he declined to say when they will begin their hunt.
Zimmerman believed the young man walking through the gated community in a "hoodie," or hooded sweatshirt, looked suspicious, said his lawyer, Craig Sonner, and called the police nonemergency line to report a suspicious person.
Trayvon, unarmed, had been walking back to his father's fiance's townhouse. Zimmerman followed and an altercation ensued, ending when Zimmerman shot him before officers could respond.
On the City of Sanford website, city manager Norton Bonaparte says Zimmerman "holds a concealed weapon permit issued from the state of Florida," allowing him to carry a gun that night.
At Saturday's protest in Sanford, leader Muhammad led the Panther protest in chanting "Justice for Trayvon!" and "Black Power!"
"If the government won't do the job, we'll do it," he said, leading his group of eight party members in chants like "freedom or death" and "justice for Trayvon" while making the iconic gesture of raising their fists into the air.
Muhammad added that the group's national chairman, Dr. Malik Zulu Shabaz, is receiving donations from black entertainers and athletes. They hope to collect $1 million by next week, he added.
